Endorsements for
W ork by Referral. L iv e the Good L ife !

Work by Referral. Live the Good Life! is hardly just a book about selling real
estate, although no one—no one!—has a more systematic and proven way to
do that than Brian Buffini and Joe Niego. It is also a book about how to live
a deeply satisfying and meaningful life, and they're just as convincing about
how to do that!
Tony Schwartz, President of The Energy Project, author of
The Power of Full Engagement: Managing Energy Not Time
This book is a must for anyone planning on being highly successful in the real
estate business and yet living a happy, well balanced life.
Wes Foster, Chairman/CEO, Long & Foster Companies
A leader is someone who has a vision, a plan and leads by example. Brian and
Joe have experienced great success and they share their plans with you in a
well written, entertaining and informative book. The only things that will
change you from where you are to where you'll be in five years are the books
you read, the people you meet and the dreams you dream. Read this book and
it will change your life positively.
Coach Lou Holtz, former Head Coach, University of
Notre Dame, inducted in the College Football Hall of Fame
If you are tired and feeling burnt out, this book is a must read. Work by
Referral. Live the Good Life! will restore and renew your passion, your business,
and your life.
Jack Canfield, author of The Success Principles™ and
co-author of the Chicken Soup for the Soul® series
Buffini's commitment to his clients' overall success parallels our own desire
to provide an environment that allows our sales associates to improve the
quality of their lives and to give back to the communities we serve.
Lawrence F. (Larry) Flick, IV, Chairman and CEO
Prudential Fox & Roach, Realtors and The Trident Group


Brian Buffini is one of the world's leading experts on referral marketing. I
highly recommend his book Work by Referral. Live the Good Life! to anyone
who wants to learn how to build their business through the referral process.
Dr. Ivan Misner, New York Times Bestselling author and
Founder of Business Network International
In today's changing real estate market, having the right game plan in place is
critical for success. Brian Buffini's Referral Systems, as clearly outlined in this
book, will provide you with a proven strategy for generating a steady stream
of business despite market fluctuations.
John Featherston, CEO & Publisher, RISMedia, publishers of
Real Estate magazine
Brian Buffini has positively impacted the professional and personal lives of
thousands of RE/MAX agents around the world over the past 11 years. This
book is the road map to your success; buy it; read it; do it.
Dave Liniger, Chairman and Co-founder
RE/MAX International
Brian has synthesized a life's work to give the ultimate roadmap to success as
a real estate professional and how to create a meaningful and balanced life.
Bravo!! A must read.
Avram Goldman, President and CEO, Pacific Union GMAC
Real Estate

Work by Referral. Live the Good Life! lays out a clearly lit path that is easy to fol­
low yet is profound in depth and clarity.
Jim Rohn, America's foremost business philosopher
Nobody should sell real estate without reading Work by Referral. Live the Good
Life! This book is insightful, practical, and best of all the strategies are
PROVEN.
Zig Ziglar, author and motivational teacher
I am delighted that Brian and Joe have compiled their systems into a one stop
reference to keep me on track! Since I've been following Buffini's Working by
Referral program, I feel set free!
Judy Moses, 2007 National President, Women's Council
of Realtors


BRIAN

BUFFINI

& JOE

NIEGO

WORK

By Referral
Live the Good Life!
Proven Strategies
fo r
in

Su c c e s s
th e

R

eal

and

E

FFa p p i n e s s

state

B

usin ess


Published by Buffini & Company, Inc.
Carlsbad, CA, U.S.A.
® 2008 Buffini & Company, Inc.
All Rights Reserved.
100 Days to Greatness, "Oh, by the way . . .," and Turning Point Retreat are
registered trademarks of Buffini & Company, Inc. The Turning Point, Buffini &
Company Turning Point, ClubNet, Buffini & Company Referral Systems Member,
Buffini & Company Certified Mentor, Peak Performers, Work by Referral. Live the
Good Life!, Client Appreciation Program, and Ultimate Office Kit are trademarks
of Buffini & Company, Inc.
ISBN: 978-0-9820260-0-7
Printed in the United States of America


Dedication
To the men and women who have boldly
stepped into the real estate sales and lending arena:
Your courage is inspiring.
You believed in yourself and entered a business
with no guarantee of income, benefits, or support.
We honor you. We salute you. We believe in you.
We hope this book will bring you
encouragement and direction.


Acknowledgements
There is not enough time or space to properly acknowledge all those
who have contributed to our success in real estate and happiness in
life. You know who you are. Please accept our heartfelt thank you.
A few special thanks ~
To Beverly and Julie: your unconditional love and support is our strength. Often
times we talk about how fortunate we are to be married to people like you.
You bring so much joy to life.
To our kids, the “A Team" and "Fab 5": thanks for being who you are. When we
grow up, we want to be like you. We can't imagine life without you.
To David Lally: thanks for getting this whole project started. We will not write
another book without you.
To Anita Slomski: thanks for your enthusiasm and effort in getting the copy just
right. You are a true professional.
To Kate Hawley: thanks for your passion in what you do. We love your style.
To Terry Niego: thanks for your meticulous attention to detail and your brilliant
insight.
To the Servant Leaders at Buffini & Company: thanks for your tireless effort to
impact and improve the lives of people.
To Niego Real Estate: thanks for your commitment to the Working by Referral
system. You are a shining example of its success.
To Steve and Lois Rabey: thanks for your contribution and effort.
To the thousands of Buffini & Company clients: thanks for inspiring us to grow.
Special thanks to our clients and members who have allowed us to use their sto­
ries to inspire others.
