Chapter One

Discovering a
Better Way

W

e've all seen classic Western movies, many of them starring
John Wayne, in which the good guy rides into a dusty town

on his faithful horse and becomes the enemy of the bad
guys who want to drink, shoot, and generally raise hell.
The good guy relies on his personal code—as well as his handy sixshooter—to fight lawlessness. And to make it easier for us to figure out
who's who, the director has the good guy wear a white ten-gallon hat
while the bad guys sport big black hats.
For us, this scenario is more than a script for Western movies; it's
a mirror of the way things are in the real estate industry. Let us explain.

A Date with Destiny
It was February 10, 1992, and we had both been invited to attend an
elite agent conference at the Sir Francis Drake Hotel in downtown San
Francisco. Thirty of the most productive agents in real estate were
gathering for three days of brainstorming and networking about
industry insights and strategies.
Strangers to each other that morning, the two of us were sitting at
opposite sides of the room. But a few hours into the conference, we
were probably the only two fidgeting in our chairs, uncomfortable with
the definitions of success extolled by one super-agent after another.
There was a distinct "me-first" attitude among the speakers, who had
oversized egos and were a little too slick for our tastes.
Besides inflating their production numbers and gross commissions
to outdo each other, these industry giants promoted a customer-service


approach best described as "find 'em, fleece 'em, and forget 'em."
Clients who were not planning on buying or selling a home within the
next 30 days were ignored or, as one agent stated, "I tell them to buy
or get out of my car!" And there was nothing fresh or innovative about
their sales tactics, which consisted of cold-calling, door-knocking, and
other types of Transactional Approaches.
As luck would have it though, we sat at the same lunch table where
we discovered that we had many things in common. We both came
from big families, had played competitive sports, and our business
and life philosophies were amazingly in sync. From that day on we've
often referred to ourselves as "brothers from different mothers."
For years, both of us had worked exclusively by referral and we
could not fathom how the tactics we heard
At the end of each day,
discussed that morning would ever mesh
with a cigar wedged

with our beliefs on how to work and how to
live. We had built our careers around a phi­

between two fingers Harry

losophy of service that puts the client first. By
remaining invested in those relationships for

would point to my work,

the long haul, we had received the benefit of

look me dead in the eye,

clients' referrals for years and years to come.
We had defined success as a combina­

and ask, "Can you put

tion of income and the pride we felt in a job
well done. Yet many of the speakers that day

your name to that today,

talked only about money, their material
comforts, and industry accolades.

Brian?"

After lunch, the conference attendees
were to meet in small groups to discuss their

greatest challenges and best ideas. More disappointment: Instead of
hearing about great new ideas, we endured four hours of stories about
messy divorces, client lawsuits, and petty jealousies.
We also discovered to our chagrin that these people were spending
as much as they were making. They were indeed grossing a lot of
money, but as we did the math, it became clear that they were spend­
ing a considerable amount to generate each lead without keeping
much in profit.

Discovering a Better Way

We didn't return to the conference the following morning.
Instead, we spent the next two days sharing the ideas and concepts
that had proven so successful for us, not only in our growing real
estate businesses but also in our lives.
Here are the stories of two ambitious young men who wanted to
be successful in business but in a way that would allow them to be
proud of their profession and build long-lasting relationships with the
people they served.
In short, they wanted to be the white hats.

Brian's Story: Stranger in a Foreign Land
I was born and raised in Dublin, Ireland, in a family of five boys and
one girl. If you look up "Irish mother" in the dictionary you'll see a
picture of my m am! My dad is a fifth-generation painting contractor,
and at about the age of 10, 1 was taught the family trade along with the
rest of my brothers.
My grandfather, Harry, oversaw our daily training and instruction as
we apprenticed in the trade. At the end of each day, with a cigar wedged
between two fingers Harry would point to my work, look me dead in the
eye, and ask, "Can you put your name to that today, Brian?" My grand­
father was upholding the Buffini tradition of doing work that exceeded
customers' expectations so that the company could depend on word-ofmouth advertising. Little did I know that, years later, this same principle
would make me a fortune in the real estate business.
The Ireland of my youth was not the economic powerhouse it is
today and many ambitious Irishmen beat the well-worn path to the
States looking for opportunity. So at the age of 19, with $92 in my
wallet and a duffle bag containing all my worldly possessions, I immi­
grated to America and landed in San Diego, California. I was happy to
find any type of work. At various times I sold t-shirts off a cart at
Pacific Beach, was a night security guard at the La Jolla Cove Hotel,
and developed photos at the local film express.
Then a serendipitous chat with a man in a bar changed my life.
Accustomed to the Irish sport of going to a pub to engage in friendly


conversation, I had no qualms about chatting with the patron sitting
next to me. He told me he was in real estate and handed me a card
printed with his name and the words "Million Dollar Club." That got
my attention.
After he described his daily activities of selling real estate, he told
me, "You'd be great in real estate. You seem like a real people-person,"
adding that his company provided free training to new recruits.
Two days later I sat nervously in his broker's office, wearing a
leather jacket, white shirt and thin gray tie, which was fashionable in
Europe at the time, but a little strange for San Diego. As the broker
reviewed my hastily assembled resume, I was grateful I had asked my
mother to use her direct line to heaven to put in a good word for me.
Mam's prayers were answered. "As soon as you get your license you
can start," the broker said. Ninety days later and feeling like I'd just
won the lotto, I confidently marched into my new career.
But the training I had banked on was practically nonexistent. So I
tried every method I could think of to find clients: cold-calls, doorknocking, direct mail, billboards, even my own real estate radio show.
Eventually I moved to the most prestigious realty company in the area
and soon became the top agent with closets full of trophies to show
for it. In the eyes of my peers, I was a major success.
But I didn't feel successful. After less than two years as an agent
and now married with children, I was spending as much in my busi­
ness as I was making, getting behind on my taxes, and working seven
days a week. So many hours were spent trying to generate leads that
my clients were getting the leftovers of my time and energy. On the
home front, it was common for me to leave before the kids were awake
and return home when they were already asleep at night.
I could no longer quell my growing disquiet. The industry was
telling me I was a success but I remember thinking, "If I'm successful,
what the heck is everyone else doing?"
I went away for a weekend by myself to try to clear the cobwebs. I
was seriously thinking of getting out of the business. I reflected on what
I had wanted when I first got into real estate, what I had hoped to
achieve, and what I wanted my business to do for me and my family.

Discovering a Better Way

I thought about my grandfather asking, "Can you put your name
to that, Brian?" I thought about past successes in school, especially in
sports, and when I compared who I was in my mind's eye to how I
was living, the tears of frustration started to flow.
From that moment, I resolved that I would never again care
about agent rankings, accolades, or trophies. I realized that my father
and grandfather had it right all along. Exceeding my clients' expecta­
tions would not only produce the level of income I desired, but I
would have a business that would make me proud. I would measure
success by how much net income I earned and how well I took care
of my clients.
I now had a passion to find a better way to sell real estate, to serve
my clients at a deeper level, and have a business that served the needs
of my family.

Joe's Story: Breaking the Mold
My seven brothers and sisters and I grew up in a tight-knit, IrishCatholic blue-collar community on Chicago's South Side. Mom was a
homemaker and my father worked for the city of Chicago and also
had his own business as a cement finisher. In my neighborhood, you
played sports in high school and then got a job with the city as a fire­
man, police officer, or civil servant. Maybe you went off to college, but
you usually came back and then went to work for the city.
But I always knew I wanted to break out of the mold. I went to
Lewis University, a small liberal-arts college in Romeoville, Illinois,
and played basketball. Although I majored in marketing, my dream
was to play in the NBA. Figuring that NBA scouts had never heard of
my Division II school, I made a highlight video and sent it to every
team in the NBA. Despite the zeal with which I pursued my goal, I was
still shocked that June day in 1987 when I was selected as the second
draff choice of the Houston Rockets.
No NBA team had ever drafted anyone from my neighborhood
before and I felt enormous pressure to not let anyone down. I became
compulsive in my pursuit of athletic perfection and punished myself


daily with the famous Walter Payton workout. I stopped each workout
only when I threw up or could no longer bend over to pick up the ball.
To my great surprise, when I arrived at rookie camp and practiced with
the Rockets, I found I was in better shape than anyone on the team and
my skills were as good or better than those I played against. So why am I
in the Real Estate Hall of Fame instead of the Basketball Hall of Fame?
Although my athleticism and game had exceeded the boundaries of
my neighborhood, my mind had not. When I practiced with Hakeem
"the Dream" Olajuwon, Ralph Samson, and World B. Free—some of the
all-time greatest in the NBA—I could hang
I began to notice client
with them physically, but mentally, I didn't
patterns and discovered

feel I belonged in their league.

that there was a direct

Doubt crept in. "Who do you think you
are?" I would ask myself. "You're just an aver­

correlation between the

age Joe from the South Side of Chicago." I
had stopped believing in myself, which led

quality of the leads I was

to me being released from the team and
abandoning my childhood dream.

generating and the
sources from which
they came.

As I flew home, I felt not only personal
loss but also that I'd let down my family
and neighborhood. What was I going to do
now? Work for the city? I had no idea.
Just a few weeks later, I had a conversa­
tion with a man who had grown up in the

neighborhood and was a legend for the fortune he had amassed as a
real estate investor. On one of his visits back, he told me that the vast
majority of millionaires in America owned real estate and that a great
way to learn the business was to become a real estate agent. "Don't
worry Joe," he told me, "give it 10 years and you'll be making more
than any guy in the NBA!"
Before this conversation, the only way I dreamed I could achieve
financial success was through professional sports. But now the idea of
owning real estate excited and inspired me. With renewed hope,
enthusiasm, and a promise to not repeat the mistakes I had made
with the NBA, I pursued real estate with passion. As a reminder to

Discovering a Better Way

never again sell myself short, I created the personal slogan, "Not your
average Joe."
Once in real estate, I tried everything and anything to generate busi­
ness: standing on top of a promotional billboard, dressing up as a lep­
rechaun—admittedly, a very tall one—and handing out cookies to the
entire neighborhood, and doling out candy as the Easter Bunny. I tried
cold-calling, door-knocking, geographic farming, mass mailings, and
every form of advertising. I was working 70 to 80 hours a week and had
little to show for it. My intensive basketball workouts seemed like a walk
in the park compared to my effort of trying to generate sales.
I will never forget the day I called a "time-out." Becoming very
analytical, I rethought every activity I did at work to diagnose the
problems in my struggling business. I began to notice client patterns
and discovered that there was a direct correlation between the quality
of the leads I was generating and the sources from which they came.
The referred leads were more enjoyable, more cooperative, and the
most profitable since I didn't have to spend advertising dollars to find
them. I also loved the feeling of trust I felt when I met them for the
first time and, more than anything, I wanted to do right by them. So I
dedicated myself to building my real estate business through referrals
and repeat customers.
Now looking back over 2,400 closed transactions, I realize that the
time-out I took was the turning point in my career.

The Road to True Success
We believe it was Providence that the two of us met at the conference
in San Francisco that day. Since then, we've become strong friends and
partnered on many business ventures together. We have brainstormed
on how to improve the real estate business almost every day since
we've met. And now we travel the world presenting the Working by
Referral system we've built to impact and improve the businesses and
lives of agents and lenders.
We have faced the same challenges and problems you have faced in
your career and we've learned our lessons the hard way. We've struggled


with finding a better way to do business, and through trial and error,
test marketing, and much evaluation, we believe we've found it.
The good news is these methods create consistency and pre­
dictability in both the quality and quantity of the leads you'll gener­
ate. By using the Working by Referral techniques, we've been able to
build businesses that continue to grow and develop. They have revo­
lutionized work and life for us and for tens of thousands of people in
our industry.
And we'd like to share with you how our principles and practices
can dramatically change your career and life as well. Our step-by-step
approach will give you the tools to help you become financially suc­
cessful and get the most enjoyment out of your work. Join us in learn­
ing Working by Referral and prepare to live the good life.

Chapter Two

The Both/And
Mindset
By Brian Buffini

Some men see things as they are and say "Why?" I
dream things that never were, and say “Why not?"
George Bernard Shaw

Whenever you see a successful business,
someone once made a courageous decision.
Peter Drucker
