Chapter Two

The Both/And
Mindset
To the casual observer, Collette Horton tuas on a meteoric path to success. An
assistant to an accountant at age 16, Collette was a wholesale mortgage rep by
20 and a broker bringing in a six-figure income by 28.
But as Collette's career grew, her family life withered. Working 70 or
more hours a week, she was too spent to play with her five-year-old son,
Shawn. And when she went out to dinner with her husband, Terry, she didn't
hesitate to take business calls—even during a romantic dinner he arranged
for their wedding anniversary. "Talk about not having any boundaries!" says
Collette, a broker with Liberty Star Mortgage in Houston.
Collette told herself that it was love for her family that drove her to work
brutal hours. But as the couple edged closer to divorce, this explanation no
longer made sense. And if you asked Collette what her long-term goals were,
she came up blank. "My only goal was to get to the end of the month," she
said. "I kept telling myself that I would change things, work fewer hours. But
month after month, nothing changed because my business was consuming
my life. I had no time for anything or anyone else."
It took a crayon drawing posted on the refrigerator to finally open
Collette's eyes. Shawn's teacher had asked him to make a drawing of his
family. Shawn had drawn himself, his father, and the family dachshund,
Rex. But Collette was AWOL from the picture. Soon after, Shawn's teacher
asked Collette during a parent-teacher conference if everything was all right
at home, showing her a letter Shawn had written that said, "Dear Mom,
When are you coming home? Your friend, Shawn."
"I felt like someone had punched me in the stomach," recalls Collette. "I
saw myself as a complete and total failure as a mom and as a wife." When


Collette confided her troubles to a colleague, he said he knew someone who
could help. "I signed up for a Business Coach with Buffini & Company the
next day, " she says.
Collette's Business Coach challenged her to consider the idea that she
could continue her successful career and have time and energy for what was
really important to her—a happy family. But that meant she would have to
be open to a new way of running her business, necessitating both a new
mindset and a new way of working.

The Major Breakthrough
Collette didn't intentionally sacrifice her family to her career. But, like
many agents and lenders, she gradually drifted into a pattern of work that
consumed more and more hours as she rationalized away her dreams of
having a balanced, fulfilling life. "Life is what happens to you while you're
busy making other plans," sang John Lennon in the song, "Beautiful Boy."
Joe and I speak to thousands of men and women every year who,
like Collette, mistakenly think they have to settle for less in their per­
sonal lives as they build their businesses. Some are industry veterans
like Collette. Others are new agents and lenders who find themselves
putting in more and more hours at work, hoping that the time spent
will eventually translate into a profitable business.
A month before my nineteenth birthday, as I prepared to leave
Ireland and come to America, my father warned me about chasing my
financial goals at all costs:
Son, you've always had a lot of ambition and drive, and America is
a place that rewards those character qualities. You'll undoubtedly
earn a lot of money and acquire a number of possessions. But I've
known many a man who would trade in all his riches to reclaim the
time forever lost with his children, the relationship he didn't have
with his spouse, or to recapture the years he spent in dogged pursuit
of financial success only to discover too late that he'd missed out on
many of life's more rewarding experiences.
I didn't doubt the sincerity of my father's advice. But as a 19-yearold, I believed in the infinite opportunities I would find in America. I

The Both/And Mindset

did not intend to have to choose between having the fullness of life
and the financial freedom I desperately wanted. I believed I could
achieve both in harmony.
However, as the years passed and my San Diego real estate practice
grew, there were too many evenings I came home late for dinner, too
many afternoons spent negotiating on a cell phone at my kids' soccer
games, and too many hours being preoccupied or giving in to exhaus­
tion when I could have been pursuing my other passions in life.
I was letting my business run my life and I began to wonder
whether my father was right all along. Did I have to choose between
financial wealth and a happy family life? Did being financially suc­
cessful mean forfeiting all my other dreams? Could my business only
be successful if I spent every waking moment on it? I realized I was in
danger of derailing the dreams I had when I first came to America.
My internal conflict between work and family caused me to re­
evaluate my life, which also meant taking a hard look at my business.
Was there a way to run my business so that I was in control and not at
the mercy of unreasonable clients? How could I feel confident engag­
ing in new business opportunities instead of wondering where my
next transaction was coming from? Could this seemingly unpre­
dictable business create a predictable income stream with a pre­
dictable work schedule? Could I build a business that serves my life,
instead of having my life serve my business?
After much reflection and contemplation, 1 found my answer. Yes,
there is a way!

Embracing the Both / A n d Mindset
We all face similar challenges in balancing our work and personal
lives. How can you have both a successful career and a happy, full life?
How can you both provide for your family and give them the time and
love they need? How can you live by your core values and be success­
ful in business?
The first step is to simply believe you can. The wealthiest man who
ever lived was King Solomon. One of his proverbs states that, "As a


man thinketh in his heart, so is he." A person is literally what he
thinks, his character being the complete sum of all his thoughts.
We believe that two seemingly opposed desires can indeed exist in
harmony if you have a both/and mindset. You can have both a career and
a life, success and a loving family, wealth and the good life. Think back
to the dreams you had when you first went into business for yourself—
dreams of being your own boss, working flexible hours, realizing the
potential for ever-growing income. You
"As a man thinketh in his

believed your business could be the financial
vehicle to fund your life's passions.

heart, so is he." A person

Collette went into business for herself for
the same reason. But somewhere along the

is literally what he thinks,

way, she began to see her desire to be a suc­
cessful broker as being diametrically opposed

his character being the
complete sum of all his
thoughts.

to being a good mom and wife. That meant
she felt forced to choose one and abandon
the other—an either/or mindset.
Unfortunately, this either/or mindset

We believe that two

seems to be prevalent in our industry. We get
mired in all the daily details of running a busi­

seemingly opposed desires

ness, losing sight of the desires that first moti­
vated us. Soon either/or becomes our default

can indeed exist in

approach and we forget that we had once envi­

harmony if you have a

sioned more for ourselves. We lose control of
our lives and fail to achieve the goals we set

both/and mindset

when we believed we could have it all.
Some of us try to make up for our frus­

trations by loading our walls with awards
and plaques testifying to our superior production. But no number of
shiny brass plaques will ever make up for lost time with a child or
abandoning a lifelong dream. We end up chasing the phantom of suc­
cess instead of the genuine article.
In this book we will be giving you our proven systems for generat­
ing high-quality leads and strategies for closing more deals, ultimate­
ly leading you to financial success. But if that's all we gave you, we'd

The Both/And Mindset

be disappointed because life is so much more than building a busi­
ness. We want to show you how these systems can offer you both eco­
nomic success and personal happiness.
As Joe and I walk you through our time-tested principles and prac­
tices, we want you to think about the dream you had when you first
got into this business. Embracing the both/and mindset will enhance
your life, making it better and fuller.

From Small Steps to Big Changes
After seven years of Coaching, Collette Horton's life now reflects a
both/and philosophy rather than the either/or rut she had gotten her­
self into.
"When you are the type of mother that your child leaves out of his
drawings, the last thing you think you deserve is another child," says
Collette. "But thanks to my new both/and philosophy, I made the
decision to have another child, a daughter named Tara. I opened an
office five minutes from home and I leave work by five o'clock. That
may seem like a small thing, but it's huge for me and my family."
Collette is finding more time to do the things that matter most to
her. Recently she spent five days volunteering at Pathways, a nonprof­
it foundation that helps people overcome their barriers to success.
"This is a real passion for me," she says. "It's a thrill for me to be able
to help people improve their lives by steering them in the right direc­
tion and providing affirmation."
Collette's income has continued to grow, not because she is work­
ing 70 hours a week but because she is working more effectively and
systematically. "I recently met with a local developer who told me, 'We
work 24/7 for our clients and we need you to work 24/7, too,' she says.
"I told him, 'Then I'm not the lender for you at this time.' Initially the
company was shocked by my response and threatened to take its busi­
ness elsewhere. Now they've come back, respectful of the boundaries
I've set around time for my family."
Collette is truly enjoying the best of both worlds—a business that
rewards her and a family life that fulfills her.


A ction Step

Think of an example of an area in your life
where you've slipped into Either/Or thinking
( Circle one)

■

Spiritual

■

Family

■

Business

■

Financial

■

Personal (Physical and Emotional)

Chapter Three

Working by
Referral
By Brian Buffini

A principle—as its very nature implies—is something
which comes first. A principle is a master key which
opens a thousand locks; a compass which will guide you,
even on an uncharted sea.
E. M. Standing

Drive thy business, or it will drive thee.
Benjamin Franklin


Chapter Three

Working
by Referral
When Isabel Diaz of Oak Lawn, Illinois, got her real estate license in 1988,
she was highly motivated to succeed. Following the path of many agents, she
enthusiastically embraced the Transactional Approach of cold-calling, doorknocking, pursuing expired listings, and hosting open houses every weekend.
Soon her workweek had expanded to 110 hours.
This hard work seemed to pay o ff as leads came in and deals were
signed. Month after month, Isabel was the top producer in her office and
eventually became the top earner in her office for an entire year.
To an outsider, Isabel appeared highly successful. But when I spoke with
her, she admitted she wasn't happy. She was spending excessive amounts of
money to find leads, she was at the mercy of demanding clients, and she saw
no light at the end of the tunnel. She didn't own a business, her business
owned her.
“Even though I was working frantically and carrying two cell phones
and a pager, I couldn't see my business life getting any better," she told me.
"I wondered if I would always work so hard to find a client and then feel the
need to prove to them I was valuable. I was exhausted. Even worse, my work
life was causing strains in my marriage and distance between me and my
children. Plus, I was gaining weight, having health issues, and not feeling
good about myself."
To relieve her unhappiness, Isabel shopped. And the worse she felt, the
more she bought. Within a couple of years, she was $250,000 in debt,
which, of course, pushed her to close more transactions. Living deal to deal,
she focused her attention on current clients only and never gave former cus­
tomers another thought.
