Working by Referral

Picture the scene: I'm an immigrant, I'm broke, and I see real
estate as my financial security. I'm willing to do whatever it takes to
succeed, but after several days of making calls, I began to think that I
was not cut out for this business.
I asked my fellow agents how they coped with making cold-calls.
Usually they said, "Oh, I don't do any of that stuff; that's just what
they have the rookies do."
"So what do you do?" I asked.
Mostly they talked about walk-ins, sign calls, and floor time. They
also told me about the advertising they were doing.
I got the picture that agents were either hard-core prospectors
using cold-call techniques, or they sat
around waiting for leads to contact them
like fishermen sitting on a lake. Problem

Every day is a new day in

was, none of these fishermen seemed to

the Transactional

have any bait on their hooks.
What I saw didn't jibe with how I
thought business should be done. In my
past experience with my dad's painting
business, all new work came from referrals
from former clients and that is how I want­

Approach; there is no link
to the past work you've
done or the relationships

you've established.
ed to work.
I now know that the reason the agents in
my first office were floundering is because they had fallen into the trap
of following the Transactional Approach to business, which unfortu­
nately is still the hallmark of our industry today.
Under the Transactional Approach, agents spend most of their
energy finding the next lead. When they get a client, they focus on
closing the transaction, getting paid, and then looking for the next
lead. They become so preoccupied with finding the next deal, they
don't stay in contact with the client they've just served.
It's become the custom in our business to give a client a gift at
closing—a bouquet of flowers or basket of fruit—as a token of thanks.
But the vast majority of these gifts are actually farewell gifts since the
typical agent doesn't ever see that client again.


Every day is a new day in the Transactional Approach; there is no link
to the past work you've done or the relationships you've established. I
have met 20-year veterans of the real estate business who, every January 1,
start from scratch searching for new clients using cold-calling, doorknocking, and advertising. Unfortunately, until they shift their thinking,
they will always be one client away from going out of business.
Following the Transactional Approach, I did find a few questionable
leads and pursued them with everything I had, even closing some deals.
But my business was starting to resemble the old Irish story about a labor­
er who was assigned to paint a stripe down the center of a country road.
The first day he painted a quarter-mile section. The second day he paint­
ed only 200 yards. And the next he painted just 50 yards of roadway. "Why
has production dropped off so much?" asked his annoyed supervisor.
"It's simple," the laborer said. "The bucket keeps getting further away."
Just like the road painter, I was working too hard with not enough
results to show for it. I was basically just a salesperson—a cog in an estab­
lished system—not the businessman I wanted to be. And the constant
stress of worrying where my next deal was going to originate made me as
anxious as all the other agents I knew. Depending on personality type,
some dealt with the anxiety by working too hard, like I did, while others
distracted themselves and played computer solitaire for hours on end,
hoping a prospect would call them.
As long as we stuck with this Transactional Approach of doing
business, how could we expect anything to change? The answer was we
couldn't.

Getting Rid of Relics
Besides being an unproductive and stressful way to work, some of the
methods of the Transactional Approach have become obsolete.
In the 1990s, the term "cocooning," coined by the trend-forecaster
Faith Popcorn, came into vogue to describe Americans' desire to retreat
into their homes and insulate themselves from outside intrusion. Gated
communities sprang up, allowing homeowners to control who entered
their enclaves. And door-to-door cold-calls became a thing of the past.

Working by Referral

Hearing the protests of Americans fed up with being bombarded
by telephone sales calls at all hours of the day and evening, the DoNot-Call Implementation Act of 2003 was signed into law. Similar leg­
islation has already passed in many other countries. Now the old
method of picking up the phone book and making cold-calls was also
history. Today agents must first consult a Do-Not-Call registry before
they pick up the phone. And lenders attempting to contact agents also
face an equivalent of the Do-Not-Call law—namely, receptionists who
resolutely screen calls and anyone dropping by the office.
Legislative and front-desk firewalls aren't the only obstacles to
cold-calling and door-knocking, however. There's also the Golden
Rule to consider. After fending off the telemarketing calls, junk mail,
and e-mail spam that infiltrate our own homes, many agents don't feel
comfortable inflicting similar tactics on others.
Since these traditional methods have become antiquated, one
might think the Transactional Approach to acquiring clients has faded
over time. Not so. Remember, the Transactional Approach is a philos­
ophy, not a technique. Today, cold-calling and door-knocking have
been replaced with pursuing Internet leads, blast e-mail messages, and
Web sites as agents continue to search for the next client in a sea of
strangers. And, don't forget, once you find a potential buyer or seller
using transactional methods, you still have to spend time and energy
building the relationship in order to convince your prospect that you
offer value and trustworthiness.

Building Relationships that Last
Why do agents continue to use painstaking transactional methods to
do business? Many are just trying to survive in a hectic and stressful
environment and don't take the time to reflect on and rethink their
business strategies. Instead, they just work harder. But working harder
isn't the answer; working more effectively and efficiently is.
Fortunately, Do-Not-Call registries, caller ID, and other protective
layers of the home cocoon don't have to separate us from potential
clients. Working by Referral delivers the highest-quality leads—people


who are waiting for your call after getting an endorsement of your charac­
ter and competence from someone they trust.
Working by Referral is based on agents and lenders maintaining a
consistent level of contact with and care for the people in their data­
base (which we'll define later), leading to a steady stream of repeat
and referred clients. You'll want to treat these folks with the same care
and respect as you would a friend or family member.
There is a widely held belief among agents that you can't expect
referrals unless you've been in the business a long time. This is not
true. In fact, if you are a new agent or lender, you have an advantage
because you haven't been wasting your time using unproductive ways
to build your business.
Let's compare the Transactional and Relational Working by Referral
attributes.

Transactional Approach

Working by Referral
(Relational Approach)

Time-consuming

Time-efficient

Money-intensive

Leverages your investment

Energy-draining

Energy-boosting

Leads to burnout

Relationship-rewarding

Low-quality clients

High-quality,referred clients

The Transactional Approach to business is not only painful in the
present, its long-term financial results are bleak, and it eventually cre­
ates burnout. New agents may initially get some traction using the
Transactional Approach because they have considerable enthusiasm
and energy to put behind it. But over time, most agents can't keep up
that brutal pace and will want their business to carry them.
The Working by Referral approach produces both a current and
future payout. In the present, you will enjoy high-quality leads and a
steady income. And with each transaction, you will be building relation­
ships with people who will send you referrals. You will be growing a

Working by Referral

business instead of making a sale. The production pattern you will expe­
rience as illustrated in the graph below is the compounding effect.

w

c

1c
c

O 5
o
D
■o

Q.

10

Time (in years)

Figure 1. Production Pattern

The Best Payoff
Using the Working by Referral system as the foundation of our real
estate businesses, Joe and I have enjoyed the financial rewards of suc­
cess without sacrificing relationships with family and friends. Time
spent at work is productive, and family and personal time is our own.
I was never so grateful for this referral system than when we were
expecting our second child. Anthony was then two years old and we
were confident we could handle both a toddler and an infant. But as
Beverly's due date approached, it became harder for me to think
about going off to work every day. Anthony was a high-energy boy
and I knew how little sleep Beverly would be getting once the baby
arrived. And besides wanting to help out, I also wanted to be there to
get to know our daughter, Anna.


So I took six weeks off from work to be home with my family. I
knew my business would continue to grow even when I was away
because this referral system would be generating leads the entire time.
I put the cell phone aside, closed the briefcase, and concentrated on
welcoming our second child into the family.
When I came back to the office, my assistant had fielded 31
referred leads during my absence. My relational philosophy of doing
business had paid off. I officially had a Working by Referral business—
one that generated leads even in my absence. My clients were recom­
mending me to their friends and family without my prompting.
From that day forward, no matter what the market conditions, I
never worried about finding leads or when I would close my next deal.
I will always cherish those six weeks with my family and Working by
Referral made them possible.
It can do the same for you.

A ction S teps
Evaluate your business.
(Circle a number)
I have an abundant flow of incoming leads.
Rarely

2

4

Sometimes

6

8

Always

10

8

Always

10

I work with high quality leads.
Rarely

Sometimes

3

5

I know where my next transaction is coming from.
Rarely

2

Sometimes

4

6

Always

8

10


Chapter Four

You're in the
Lead-Generation
Business
By Joe Niego

I need the leads. I need them now. Or I'm gone.
Real estate salesman Shelly Levene
in "Glengarry Glen Ross"

There is only one valid definition of a business enterprise:
to create a customer. The customer is the foundation of a
business and keeps it in existence.
Peter Dmcker


Chapter Four

You're in the
Lead-Generation
Business
lengarry Glen Ross" is a great movie—if you can stand
I

w watching one gut-wrenching scene after another as the
four increasingly desperate salesmen reveal the dark side

of the real estate business.
Each of the agents portrayed in the 1992 film knows that quality
leads are the key to survival, but not one knows how to generate
them. Shelly Levene, played by Jack Lemmon, uses lies and flattery to
talk elderly people into signing on the dotted line. Ricky Roma (A1
Pacino) buys drinks for a man he meets in a bar, persuading him to
buy property that he can't afford and that his wife doesn't want.
Meanwhile, the agents played by Alan Arkin and Ed Harris conspire
to rob their company of "the good leads" in order to get jobs at a
competing agency.
Even Blake (Alec Baldwin), an executive sent to the office to
"motivate" the hapless salesmen, can't get them to increase their
sales. In his famous "coffee's for closers" monologue, he tells the
agents that the one who sells the most properties will get a Cadillac
Eldorado. Second prize is a set of steak knives. And third prize?
"You're fired," says Blake. "Do I have your attention now?"
Although the dysfunctional real estate office is fictional, the film
is dead-on accurate about one thing: This business is all about
THE LEADS.
