You're in the Lead-Generation Business

Navy Seal, you'd also need a big support group to prop you up after
the rejection of countless people hanging up on you.
On day two we filed into a Greyhound bus, which took us to a
local subdivision so that our drill instructor could teach us the science
of door-to-door prospecting. One by one, we were sent out to knock
on 15 doors. If we were unlucky enough to find someone at home, a
hidden microphone we wore projected our spiel into the bus inching
along behind where the rest of the group sat, waiting their turn to
pitch a wary homeowner.
I don't know what happened on day three because I didn't go
back. But I got his point: Like war, generating leads is hell. And the
only thing you can do is grit your teeth and plunge into the fray.
I know hard work is important, but so is working effectively.
Methods of searching out strangers didn't ring true with my thoughts
on how a successful business should be built. Why should strangers
trust me, whom they knew nothing about, with one of their biggest
decisions—buying or selling a home? Like Brian, I was convinced
there was a better way to find clients, and everything I've learned in
the past 20 years has proven this to be true.

Anything Can Work but What Works Best?
One day I went to a client's house for an appointment but no one
answered the door. Writing a note on the back of my business card
requesting that we reschedule, I dropped it in the mail slot and left. As
I drove away, I realized I had gone to the wrong house, but it was
impossible to retrieve the note. Four months later, I received a phone
call from Dean Pepol.
"I've never met you," began Dean, "but you put your business card
in my mailbox. My wife and I want to sell our house and buy a condo.
Can you help us out?" Within two weeks I had earned $25,000 in
commissions from my new client.
So although aimlessly scattering your business cards around can
work, any clients you capture with this technique will be a fluke. You
can probably dream up dozens of other methods to attract potential


clients. I once climbed to the top of a company billboard advertise­
ment 50 feet high for promotional pictures in order to drum up new
business. It was certainly an adventure, but not a profitable one.
The point is, any method of generating leads will work. Some
methods will require substantial time and will be labor-intensive
(open houses, floor time). Some will require a considerable outlay of
money (newspaper ads, promotional pieces, random mailings). Some
methods will be energy-zapping (pursuing expired listings and
FSBOs). All will produce some leads.
But is there a way of generating a lead that is less time-consuming,
less costly, more rewarding, and actually enjoyable?
There is!

Not A ll Leads Are Created Equal
Up to this point, we have assumed that all leads are created equal. But
if you have been in the real estate business
Not all leads
are created equal.

for more than 30 days, you'll know this is
definitely not true.
Most of us have tried generating leads by
holding an open house or taking floor time.
If you think back, you'll realize that most of

the contacts you spoke to didn't buy or sell a home with you. And the
few that resulted in a transaction tended to be more demanding,
uncooperative, and very price conscious because they were leery of
doing business with someone they didn't know.
In contrast, I'm hoping you've also had the opportunity to work
with clients who were referred to you, maybe from a family member
or friend. Chances are, these people were a pleasure to work with
because they trusted you. They were serious about buying or selling
their home, were loyal to you, and were happy to pay you for the value
you brought.
I experienced this difference in the quality of leads early in my
career. During my first-ever open house, I met a man who was enthusi­
astic about buying a home in the area. After a 20-minute conversation,

You're in the Lead-Generation Business

he gave me his name and phone number and agreed to work exclusive­
ly with me to find a house. But I discovered that the number he gave me
was for someone else's fax machine. Obviously he had no intention of
working with me. He was a lead, but a very low-quality one.
In contrast, Jim G. was referred to me by his friend, who happened
to be one of my former high-school instructors. I showed Jim numer­
ous homes, none of which fit his criteria. One Sunday, Jim was driv­
ing in an area outside the neighborhoods he had been considering
and saw a sign for an open house. Before entering the home, Jim
instructed the agent, "I'm currently working with Joe Niego of Niego
Real Estate. I would like to see this home but will view it now only if
you'll allow Joe to represent me if I decide to purchase it. If not, I am
happy to view the home another day accompanied by Joe."
I only learned of this conversation because the agent at the open
house called me on Monday looking for feedback. She sheepishly
relayed that she had tried to persuade Jim to work with her, but he had
remained resolute that he would work only with me. "I wish my
clients were as fiercely loyal," the agent commented.
We all need leads, but what type of lead do you really want? You
can opt for a "cold" low-quality lead that takes time, money, and ener­
gy to find and turns into a challenging client. Or would you rather
have a "warm" high-quality lead referred from someone you know
and who becomes an enjoyable, loyal client? If it's the latter, then
Working by Referral can deliver those leads in spades.

A ction Step
Remember the top three activities you need to do every day are:
1. Lead-Generation
2. Lead-Generation
3. Lead-Generation

Getting Down
to Business
agsgagaesrassicacsgiacasttsigacsxsacsxsacsacacag^^


Chapter Five

Discovering the
Riches Beneath
Your Feet
By Joe Niego

Opportunity is missed by most people because it is dressed
in overalls and looks like work.
Thomas Edison
You are, at this moment, standing right in the middle
of your own "acres of diamonds".
Earl Nightingale
