Chapter Five

Discovering the
Riches Beneath
Your Feet
olklore tells the story of an Oklahoma rancher named George

F

Jones whose raw ambition to be successful blinded him to the
wealth he already had. George's father was one of the original

Oklahoma "Sooners" who had acquired extensive land holdings and
ranches. George inherited his father's land but was not content work­
ing it. The labor was hard and George couldn't see how dirt would ever
make him wealthy.
Then around 1849 George heard about a once-in-a-lifetime
opportunity. Gold fever had come to northern California and George
was entranced by tales of men making fabulous fortunes overnight.
The way George saw it, getting rich was simply a matter of having
enough pluck to leave Oklahoma for the sun-splashed hills of
California. He hurriedly sold his ranch lands for 50 cents on the dol­
lar, packed up his family, and moved to gold country in 1850.
No one's sure what happened to George after that. Some say he
invested in a series of unsuccessful mining ventures. Others say he
opened a hardware store in San Francisco. But one thing's for sure:
George never became one of the fortunate few who struck it rich.
Meanwhile, back in Oklahoma, a gold rush of another kind was
bubbling under the soil. In the early 1900s, wildcatters discovered oil
throughout Oklahoma. One of the largest oil strikes took place on the
land that George had sold so cheaply. If only George had known that
all the riches and fortune he hungered for had been right there
beneath his feet.


I tell this story because it mirrors what I often see in the real estate
industry. I've met many ambitious, driven agents who, in their rush to
make money fast, succumb to the latest sales fads, such as buying lists
of "guaranteed leads," or attempt to build business the "easy" way
with four-color brochures and advertising.
These same agents have lost sight of their core business—generat­
ing high-quality leads from the people they already know—and are
blind to the potential riches waiting to be mined right in their own
backyards. All they need is a disciplined and systematic way to tap that
vein of gold, which will deliver the steady stream of high-quality refer­
rals that will make them successful.

Looking Beyond the Next Deal
Recently I took a video camera to the streets of Chicago to interview
ordinary people on their views of the real estate industry. Walking up to
strangers, I asked, "Do you remember the name of your real estate
agent?" The answer was typically No. "I know what she looks like, but I
don't remember her name," said one woman.
Another said, "I would have to look it up."
Whether you're an agent
or a lender, there's

And the reason most people drew a
blank: Their agent hadn't bothered to main­
tain contact after the purchase or sale of the

tremendous pressure to
focus on the next deal and

home.
Whether you're an agent or a lender,

the deal after that without

there's tremendous pressure to focus on the
next deal and the deal after that without

devoting time and

devoting time and attention to the long­
term growth of your business. That's gener­

attention to the long-term
growth of your business..

ally the case whether you've been in the
business for one year or 20. One veteran
agent told me, "Each day I feel as if I'm start­
ing all over again to get to the next deal. I
have no sense of making any long-term

gains and of actually building a business."

Discovering the Riches Beneath Your Feet

Our Working by Referral system capitalizes on generating leads
from your existing contacts, including former clients, so you don't
have to reinvent your business anew each day. But in order to have
your name at the forefront of people's minds when they're thinking
about buying or selling a house, you need to develop the primary tool
of Working by Referral: a database.

From Names to Relationships
A database is not simply a list of names, phone numbers, and address­
es; that's a personal phone book. Rather, a database is a list of relation­
ships. If you're a new agent, you may think
a database will take years to create. But
you'll see that you can generate a working
database in an hour. Veteran agents may

A database is a
list of relationships.

assume they already have a database. But if
you haven't been intentional and strategic about developing and
maintaining that database, all you really have is a list of past deals.
For more than 20 years, Bill Stewart of Novato, California, rarely contact­
ed former clients after he closed deals. Before attending the Turning Point, his
real estate business stalled at $3.5 million in annual sales.
"I'm not flashy or pushy," says Bill. "I took a passive approach based on
word of mouth because I didn't think I could do anything to create referrals."
When Bill's wife, Nancy, decided to leave her nursing career to join him in
real estate, the pressure became more intense on their business. After a brief
and unsuccessful period of door-knocking, Nancy worried that she had made
a mistake leaving nursing.
But after working with a Buffini & Company Business Coach, the
Stewarts started a database, which included their many business contacts in
their community. Now the painters and handymen Bill and Nancy refer
clients to also refer their customers to the Stewarts. The couple stays in con­
tact with everyone in their database monthly. Within seven years of Working
by Referral and building their database, they closed over $40 million a year
in sales.


"After learning how to apply a system to my database, our referrals
increased consistently as well as the quality of our clients," says Bill. "I'm
enjoying the business more than I ever have. I feel renewed. "

Going for the Gold
When new agents join our office, I challenge them to make a list of all
the people they know. Typically, they'll spend 30 minutes compiling a
list of 20 names. "Good," I say. "Now think of 20 more."
In another 45 minutes, their list is longer. I prompt them to add
another 20 names to it, reminding them not to forget the owner of the dry
cleaner they see every other Saturday or the mechanic who fixes their car.
When I first put together my own database in 1988, I distinctly
remember compiling a list with 86 names on it. Making that list was
like throwing a rock into a pond and watch­
ing the ripples spread out as one name led
The best leads will come
from people with whom

to another.
So if a database of 100 names is good,

you have a relationship.

aren't 1,000 names even better? Not neces­
sarily. You don't strike oil by digging a mile
wide and an inch deep; you've got to dig

deep. The goal is not to have the biggest database but to have one that
delivers results. And the best leads will come from people with whom
you have a relationship.
Here are places to start building your database:

• Friends and family
Transfer your holiday-card list directly to your database.
• Current clients
Can you remember the last time you bought a car? If you were
like me, you probably found yourself noticing the cars other
people were driving just before and after you made your pur­
chase. That's because our brain filters all the millions of pieces
of data we process every day in search of the data that really
matter.

Discovering the Riches Beneath Your Feet

When a person is engaged in buying or selling a home,
they have a heightened awareness of others going through
the same process. They naturally gravitate toward comparing
real estate notes with those they know who are also buying
or selling. I have discovered that current clients are an
often-overlooked source of referrals.

• Past clients
Eighty-two percent of people who had sold a home report
that they would definitely or probably use the same agent
the next time they sell, according to the National Association
of Realtors' 2006 Profile of Home Buyers & Sellers. That means
you shouldn't give your past clients the chance to forget your
name, as all those Chicagoans I'd polled on the street had
done. Don't worry if you haven't made contact with former
clients for years. There are simple and effective ways to
reconnect with previous clients, who are usually happy to
hear from their agent again. (We discuss how in Chapter 7.)
• Groups and associations
Are you a member of a sport or bridge club, a hobby
group, the PTA, or a religious organization? I coach my
son's fifth-grade basketball team and attend my other
son's baseball games. As I get acquainted with the parents
of my sons' teammates, I add them to my database when
it's appropriate.
• Business associates and networks
Networking through your local chamber of commerce or
national groups like Business Network International is a
great opportunity to add names to your database. I've also
expanded my database with the names of service providers that
I draw upon when clients ask for referrals to other
professionals, such as electricians, roofers, attorneys, title
representatives, carpet retailers and installers. As I refer my
clients to them, I actively request referrals in return.


A hard-working database
In 1994, I put the referral system and my database to the test when I
went on vacation with my sister, Terry. We were both single at the time
and needed a break. Terry took control of planning the trip and I was
stunned when she announced that we were going to Australia—for five
weeks. When I protested that I couldn't possibly be away from the
office that long, she said, "Too late, the trip's booked."
So we went, had a great time, and when we returned I had 37
referred leads waiting for me like the morning newspaper on the
doorstep. Most of those leads turned into transactions.
If you're stuck in a production rut or feel like you're banging your
head against an income ceiling, it's time to try a different approach.
Whether you're a new agent or a veteran, it's never too late—or too
soon—for you to change how you do business.

A ction Steps

■

Use the direction in this chapter to identify 100 relationships
for your database.

■

Your goal is to compile 100 names within the next 100 days. If
you need a memory jogger, go to www.buffmiandcompany.com
and download Hidden Sources of Wealth.

■

If you already have a database (minimum 100), double check
to make sure you have the proper address and phone number
for each relationship.

Chapter Six

Sorting and
Qualifying Your
Database
By Brian Buffini

Standing in the middle of the road is very dangerous;
you get knocked down by traffic from both sides.
Margaret Thatcher
When you have to make a choice and you don't make it,
that itself is a choice.
William James


Chapter Six

Sorting and
Qualifying Your
Database
ike any cat, the mighty lion can chase down, capture, and eat a

L

mouse. As a snack or appetizer, a mouse may offer a pleasant
diversion for the king of the jungle. But if mice are all he prefers
or can get, the lion will starve as he expends energy to pursue prey that
won't sustain him.
Similarly, agents can find plenty of opportunities to chase after
potential clients who will consume their time and energy. But like the
lion subsisting on mice while dreaming of antelope, your business
and your dreams of success will wither as you waste your resources
pursuing clients who never close deals. In this chapter, I will give you
a strategy that will allow you to be more efficient and effective when
working with clients.

Making the Grade
All people are created equal, but all potential clients are not. Lest you
think me judgmental or harsh, let me explain that I'm not talking
about a client's worth as a human being. Rather, I'm referring to dif­
ferentiating between customers who represent future value to your
business and those who don't.
Everyone has to use his or her resources of time, energy, and
money wisely. And agents and lenders have to focus their resources on
those individuals who are likely to use them in future real estate trans­
actions or who will refer others to them.
