Sorting and Qualifying Your Database

D so you are spending your resources where the payoff is the greatest.
Buffini & Company research has found that 40 percent of agents' and
lenders' referrals come from A+ clients.
Maintaining relationships with your A+ list is
You should have a
not only good for business, it's also fun to
spend time around people who recognize
your value!
But remember that a database is not a
mailing list. You should have a relationship
with everyone in your database and they
should recognize your name instantly when
you call.
Now it's time to sort your database by the
quality of each relationship. I've found that in

relationship with everyone
in your database and
they should recognize
your name instantly
when you call.

business as well as life, the closer the relationship, the more time you want
to spend with that person. Those at the top of your database will be the
people to whom you give your greatest attention. Here's how to categorize
the names in your database:

The people who send you multiple referrals: A+
These folks are your ravin' advocates. They love you and think they are
doing people a favor by referring them to you. Most A+ names will be
past or present clients who have experienced your exemplary service
and skill firsthand.
People most likely to refer to you: A
Past clients with whom you have a good relationship belong in the "A"
category. They haven't made multiple referrals to you yet, but it's just
a matter of time before they do and move up to an "A+" rank. Family
members and good friends also belong here.
People who would refer to you if asked and shown how: B
Neighbors or acquaintances with whom you share a common inter­
est—your children and their children are classmates, they are mem­
bers of your church, you see them at your garden club meetings—
should be ranked with a "B." They may not yet know that you are in


real estate, so as you build relationships with them, tell them you're
an agent and would be happy to have their referrals.

People who might refer to you in the future: C
"C" people are in the infancy stage of a relationship with you. You feel
that you click with them and are hoping to get to know them better.
People to be deleted from your database: D
These are people who are demanding and difficult. It takes energy to
be around them and when you see their names on caller ID, you don't
pick up the phone.
Deleting these names from your database is empowering—even if
you're desperate for business. As crazy as it sounds, go ahead and do it.
No matter how much time and energy you spend with these people,
they aren't going to close deals or send you referrals. So with their
names gone from your database, you've gained more freedom to focus
on people who will be beneficial to your business and help you prosper.
Whenever I pruned my database of "D" people, I bid them
farewell by mimicking the way my son Alex said goodbye when he was
younger. To ensure that everyone in the room paid attention to him
when he departed, Alex would give a big smile, wave, and say with
flair, "bye-bye now!" With the same fanfare I'd dispatch my "D" list
and it felt great.

Putting an "A" List to Work
Sam and Edith Elzie of Bear, Delaware, came to our Turning Point™ train­
ing seminar in 1996. Like many agents, they had a long list of people they
knew—440 names to be exact. But the list was just a disorganized compila­
tion of names, not a true database. And it was obvious the couple wasn't using
it to generate leads; they had done only 13 transactions the previous year.
Sam and Edith joined our ClubNet Coaching program that day and
began to work with Coach Roibin McFarling to sort and qualify their list.
They pared their list of 440 names to 42 "A" clients. During the next 12
months, the couple's database generated 308 referrals, resulting in almost 100
qualified leads. After sending out their first Client Appreciation Program™

Sorting and Qualifying Your Database

mailing (the Items of Value we develop every month discussed in Chapter 9,)
they closed 12 referrals in 90 days.
Today their database consistently produces as many as 26 quality refer­
rals every month. Sam and Edith have also taught our Working by Referral
system to agents across the country as well as to members of their team.

Now It's Your Turn
Take enough time to really think about the people in your database
before you assign them a letter. Remember, you are not grading peo­
ple on how much you like or dislike them. You are just determining
who will best be able to generate the referrals that will make your
business grow.
You now have your database and need to turn it into a tool that
will help you generate that steady stream of referrals that is key to our
business model for success. We suggest you use a simple contact man­
agement computer software like ACT! by Sage to group the names in
your database according to the A+ through D designations.

A ction Step

Use the criteria in this Chapter to assign a value to the relationships
you identified in Chapter 5. If you find yourself unsure about what
value (A, B, C, and D) to assign a relationship, give the benefit of the
doubt with a higher value and adjust over time. This action step will
take 30 minutes to sort and qualify 100 names.

Chapter Seven

Engaging
Your Database
By Joe Niego

Don't judge each day by the harvest you reap,
but by the seeds you plant.
Robert Louis Stevenson
Whatever you can do, or dream you can, begin it.
Boldness has genius, power and magic in it.
Goethe


Chapter Seven

Engaging
Your Database
f you've ever flown into Chicago's Midway Airport, you've proba­
bly passed over the very first home I owned in the melting-pot

I

neighborhood of West Lawn Park. Also home to the tall NativeAmerican statue seen in the movie "Wayne's World," West Lawn Park
consists of compact three-bedroom homes with lawns the size of
postage stamps.
I lived next door to a retired steelworker named Henry who nur­
tured and manicured his tiny plot of grass with all the love and care of
the head greens keeper at Augusta National Golf Club.
In contrast, my lawn looked more like an abandoned cow pasture.
With the pride of new home ownership and a desire to "keep up with
the Joneses," I started asking neighbors how I could turn my mess of
a yard into a beautiful, lush lawn overnight.
"You can't," admonished an elderly Polish woman who lived
down the street. "It takes time."
I started spending evenings and weekends raking, seeding, water­
ing, and fertilizing. Two months later, I knew I had succeeded when
Henry walked over and said, "Hey, Joe, your lawn is giving mine some
stiff competition."
My lawn did look great but it took a lot of care and attention. The
same is true of client databases, which are not unlike living organisms.
If you neglect a database, it will wither and become dormant, failing
to provide you with the leads you need to grow your business. But if
you cultivate the relationships within your database, they will reward
you with referrals. In this chapter, I'm going to give you the tools to
nurture your database and make it work for you.


Words Are the Water
Like a growing lawn, your database needs the right combination of
elements to flourish. New names are the seeds you add to your data­
base. With proper care, many will become A
Like a growing lawn,
your database needs the
right combination of

and A+ clients. Your D clients are like crabgrass; get rid of them quickly to make room
for people who are happy to refer you to
others.
Words are like water, sustaining our

elements to flourish.

relationships with clients, past and present.
Real estate agents constantly traffic in com­
munication. But we are not always as care­
ful as we should be with our words, even

People continually

though they leave indelible impressions.
People continually evaluate our words for

evaluate our words for

clues about our character, motivation, and
concerns.

clues about our character,
motivation, and concerns.

You can, however, be more intentional
about the words you use—and the impact
they have on clients—by using the tools we
call Dialogs and Letters.

The Mayor Campaign Dialog
This is a simple Dialog you can use to turn a casual conversation with
someone you meet at a party or ball game into a potential relationship
to add to your database. We call it the Mayor Campaign because
agents and lenders are always reaching out to people and asking them
to elect to work with them when they buy or sell—not unlike a mayoral candidate campaigning for votes.
Weave the Mayor Campaign Dialog into your conversation naturally:
"If you were buying or selling a home, or had a friend or family
member who was, do you have an agent you'd refer them to?"

Engaging Your Database

If their response is Yes, that's OK; just continue your conversation.
If they reply No, say:
"Well, I'd like to be that person for you. From time-to-time
I come across valuable real estate information that everyone
finds helpful. Would you like to receive that?"
Now the majority of people will say Yes, so follow up with:
"Great! So where’s the best place for me to send this information?"
Once they've given you a street address, your next goal is to get
their phone number:
"If I needed to get in touch with you, what’s the best number to reach
you?
-7 "

Then hand them your business card and say:
“I’m going to stay in contact with you and if you know anyone who
is thinking about buying or selling a home, just give me a call with
their name and business number and I'll be happy to follow up and
take great care of them."
You now have a new relationship—attached to a name, address,
and phone number—to add to your database. You don't yet know
whether this person will be a good source of referrals, so for now cat­
egorize him or her as a "C" client.
Adding new names through the Mayor Campaign Dialog is how
you keep your database fresh and growing. O f course, you have to con­
tinually sort your database, pushing names to the top as they send you
referrals and pruning those who never do.

Introduction Letter
If you are new to the business or are just starting to build a database,
don't assume that everyone knows you sell real estate and that you
would be happy to receive referrals. You have to let them know. The
