Engaging Your Database

Introduction Letter communicates that you value the relationship and
would welcome the opportunity to help with any real estate needs. It
also informs recipients that you'll be sending them valuable real
estate and lifestyle information (discussed in Chapter 9) and that you
will be following up with a phone call (see Figure 2 on page 62).

Confession Letter
During our presentations, Brian and I ask audience participants to
raise their hands if they have not been in contact with previous
clients—either face to face or by telephone—since the day of their
closing. Hundreds of hands go up. And when we ask participants to
keep their hands up if they would like to reconnect with those clients,
very few hands come down.
As the old saying goes, "Confession is good for the soul," and in
this case it's also good for re-establishing contact and a relationship
with former clients. The Confession Letter offers your apologies for
not staying in touch and affirms how much you value former clients
and would be honored to work with them again. And like the
Introduction Letter, it also states that you'll be sending them impor­
tant information through your complimentary Client Appreciation
Program and that you'll be calling them (see Figure 3 on page 64).

The "Big Three" Dialog
Now that you've sent a letter to everyone in your database, it's time to
call them. Many agents are apprehensive about the follow-up phone
call because they don't know what to say. But by using the following
Big Three Dialog as a guide, your call will sound natural and will
impart three key messages.

Can I be of any help?
Communicate your willingness to be of assistance to your contacts,
whether they are long-term clients or people with whom you've never
done business.


HI, IT’S ME!
Dear Alysha,
Working with you in the past was really enjoyable for me, and I’m glad 1 could be of service.
Since then, I must admit that I haven’t stayed in as close contact with you as I would have
liked. I now understand that the kind of people I want to work with in the future are great
people just like you.
Let me take just a moment of your time to let you know about my Client Appreciation
Program. I am making constant effort to improve the level of service I provide to my
clients. Every month I will be sending out valuable tips and information that I hope you
will find useful.
This month’s Item of Value is on the topic of home improvement and includes a list of the
top Businesses I Refer. These are service providers that I trust to give all my family, friends
and clients excellent service. Please feel free to call on them whenever you have a need they
might be able to meet.
My goal is to build out a more comprehensive Business Directory online which will include
trades and services my clients have had great experiences with. You’ll be hearing more about
this in a later email.
I look forward to talking with you soon.
Yours sincerely,
Grant George
Oh, by the w ay ..., if you knowsomeone thinking of buying or selling a home, who
would appreciate the service I offer, I’d love to help them. So, just give me a call with their
name and business number and I’ll be happy to follow up and take excellent care of them.

Figure 3. Confession letter

Engaging Your Database

"Hi, Connor. This is Alex calling. How are you doing? How's the
fam ily?
The reason I'm calling is because I want to know if you received
the information I sent you on how to prevent identity theft. I hope
you found it helpful.
Also keep in mind that if you need a referral for a painter, a
plumber, or some other service, let me know because I come across
some good tradespeople in my work."

The value you represent to me
Let your contacts know you value them.
"Connor, I want to make sure you know how much I value our rela­
tionship. I want to build my business by working with people like
you. ”

Oh, by the way® . . .
This message is vitally important. As you conclude the phone call, give
a reminder that you are looking for people who are thinking of buy­
ing or selling a home.
"Oh, by the way . . . Connor. I f you know someone who wants to buy
or sell a home, I'd love to help them. Just give me a call with their
name and business number and I'll be happy to follow up and take
great care of them. I'm never too busy for any of your referrals."
We owe the inspiration for this message to Columbo, the badly
dressed and seemingly inept TV police detective played by Peter Falk.
Often just as Columbo was about to leave the room, he would raise
his hand in the air, hold it to his forehead, and say to his prime sus­
pect, "Oh, by the way . . . " That nonthreatening phrase lowered the
defenses of the suspects Columbo was interviewing and gave him
access to the secrets they were guarding.
When you say, "Oh, by the way . . . " as if it were an afterthought,
you're gently priming the person for your key marketing message. You
can now ask for referrals in a direct way without being overbearing.
In asking for a contact's referrals, you are also asking for his or her
trust. We want our clients to know that we value and appreciate this


demonstration of trust and that we will honor it by taking great care
of the people they refer by exceeding their expectations. You want to
convey that you are passionate about what you do, you do your job
well, and by expanding your network, you can help even more people.
Your goal is for referred clients to thank their friends for making the
introduction to you.
The Big Three Dialog is a direct way to communicate that you want
to help, that you value your relationships with people, and that you're
never to busy to receive referrals. If you master this Dialog, you'll be
building your business with everyone you contact.

The New Agent Dialog
If you haven't been in business long, you can transform your lack of
experience from a liability to an asset with this Dialog. When some­
one warily asks how long you've been in real estate, answer this way:
“I'm newer to the business but I have a lot of energy. I'm fired up,
I'm enthusiastic, and I have time to help you. I f we encounter a prob­
lem that I don’t know the answer to, I'm one phone call away from
people in my office who have many years of experience. I'll get you
the answers you need."

The Fruits of Your Labors
When I began cultivating my database, I added Tom B., who is the
father of a high-school classmate of mine. Tom was then 54 and had
rented a home his entire life. Although many people would call Tom
a poor prospect for real estate, I sent him my Introduction Letter and
followed up with regular phone calls.
One day when I called Tom he made a startling announcement.
"You know, Joe," he said, "I've been thinking about what you've been
telling me about home ownership and I am ready to make a change.
Can you find me a house?"
We quickly found a wonderful property at a good price. Tom was
thrilled, which made me happy, too. And his enthusiasm for home

Engaging Your Database

ownership was contagious. In short order, he began to call with new
clients for me.
"I have eight children and I don't want them renting their entire
lives like me," Tom said. "I had a really good experience working with
you. Can you help some of my kids find homes, too?"
Over the next six months I helped four of Tom's children find
homes. And Tom's kids referred me to other clients, who referred me
to even more clients.
Our industry is full of frustrated people who seek short-term fixes.
But there's no quick way to build a client database. Instead, you need
to nurture and cultivate it day by day. The results, however, are well
worth the commitment.

A ction Steps
Newer Agent:
■ Memorize the New Agent Dialog and look for an opportunity
to use it within the next seven days.
■

Memorize the The Big Three Dialog and the Mayor Campaign.

■

Download a copy of the Introduction Letter from
www.buffiniandcompany.com and send it to all the names in
your database.

Seasoned Agent:
■ Memorize the The Big Three Dialog and The Mayor Campaign
and use them ten times within the next seven days.
■

Identify the past clients you have not been in contact with in
the last 12 months.

■

Download a copy of the Confession Letter from
www.buffiniandcompany.com and send it to each of those
clients.

Chapter Eight

Three C s
Success
By Brian Buffini

It is not your customer's job to remember you. It is your
obligation and responsibility to make sure they don't have
the chance to forget you.
Patricia Fripp
The secret to success is constancy of purpose.
Benjamin Disraeli


Chapter Eight

The Three C's
to Success

W

hen I was growing up in the old sod, my mam used to make
an Irish stew that brought all us kids running to the dinner
table. Now Irish stew is ordinarily no gourmet dish. But

mam had a secret; she slipped in a mixture of herbs and spices that
transformed the stew of lamb, potatoes, and onions into a sheer taste
delight. Friends and family would often ask for her recipe and she
would oblige—conveniently forgetting to mention at least one herb or
spice. No sense in turning a secret recipe into a common commodity
was Mam's attitude.
Buffini & Company also has a special
recipe for real estate and lending profession­
als called the Three C's to Success. But,

The Three C's stand for

unlike mam's carefully guarded recipe, we're
happy to share all the ingredients with you.

Contact, Care, and

The Three C's stand for Contact, Care,
and Community, and blending them into

Community, and blending
them into your business

your business systems will generate highquality referrals. It's crucial that you apply
all three elements, however. Neglecting even

systems will generate

one of the Three C's destroys the powerful

high-quality referrals.

synergy you get when all three are working
together. We like to say that this compounding effect on your database
is like adding 1 + 1 and getting 11 instead of 2. While this may not
seem obvious to you at first, you'll see what we mean when the results
begin to show.


In the next three chapters we'll give you all the details you need to
successfully put the Three C's in play and enjoy a quality of life that
may have eluded you in the past. To give you a taste, however, here's a
brief overview.

Contact
Regular contact with the people in your database keeps your name
top-of-mind so they'll automatically think of you when they need an
agent or lender. In Chapter 9, we'll show you specific ways to contact
people in your database to deepen your relationship with them.
Carefully worded scripts can take the dread out of making follow-up
phone calls, and our Client Appreciation Program (CAP) will entice
people to read the mail they receive from you instead of throwing it in
the trash unopened.
Care
Rhetoric about the exemplary care people will receive when they
become customers is standard in many businesses. Sometimes those
words become reality but, too often, actions don't live up to promises.
In Chapter 10 you'll find out how to earn customers' trust that
you'll truly care for them in any real estate or lending dealings. For
example, writing personal notes to some of the people in your data­
base every working day can demonstrate your care. Another technique
is the Pop-By, where you visit a person's home for a very brief visit and
drop off a little token gift that the individual will appreciate receiving.
Community
Developing a sense of community with people in your database
enhances the care you give and provides meaningful connections with
you and others. We use client parties and business lunches to build
community in a world where technology can isolate us and take the
joy of personal relationships out of business transactions. In Chapter
11, you'll read about ways that agents and lenders have created envi­
ronments for interactions that not only generate life-long clients but
also enrich relationships.

The Three C's of Success

The Recipe Frees Up Time
Right now you may be wondering how the Three C's will lead to
greater freedom in your life when you have to make time to write
notes, make personal visits, and host parties. The good news is that
once you establish the Three C's as part of your business system, nur­
turing the people in your database will take much less time than start­
ing over every day trying to drum up new business.
Mam never watched the pot of stew simmer all day; she simply
put the ingredients together, gave them a stir now and then, and got
great results. It's the same with the Three
C's. It takes only minutes a day to write a

Once the Three C's

few notes and make calls, and you can map
out a route to do Pop-Bys on the way home

become a routine part of

from work. And since most of us take time
out of our day to eat lunch, why not occa­
sionally invite people from your database
to join you?
Unlike the many hours you now spend

the way you do business,
the people who are the
recipients of your contact,

hunting for leads that may not go anywhere,
the time you spend incorporating the Three
C's into your business is manageable and

care, and community will
be generating quality

under your control. The key, however, is to
apply all three elements consistently. Once

leads for you while you

the Three C's become a routine part of the
way you do business, the people who are the

are working with your

recipients of your contact, care, and commu­
nity will be generating quality leads for you

current clients.

while you are working with your current
clients. And, suddenly, you'll be working efficiently as your business
continues to grow as you are living your life.
Remember, contact without care is transactional. Care without
contact will not produce leads. And contact and care need the element
of community to generate repeat and referred business. These are the
ingredients for a great business.
