The Three C's of Success

other. Joe once told me an unforgettable story about Helen Grabowski
that illustrates the power of the Three C's.
Helen, 81, was mourning the death of her husband of 50-plus
years when Joe was referred to her. Her friends and family, worried
about her shoveling snow and navigating the stairs in her house, were
pressing her to move to a condo. But Joe could tell that selling the
house now would be emotionally wrenching for her.
He gave her the same advice he would have given his grandmoth­
er. "Mrs. Grabowski, I think you should wait at least a year from your
husband's passing before you make a major decision like this," Joe
told her. "And a year from now, if you decide to move, I will be happy
to sell your home and help you find a condo."
In the meantime, Joe added Helen to his database, contacting her
every month with an Item of Value (discussed
in the next chapter) and a phone call. He also
sent her handwritten notes and did an occa­
sional Pop-By. She even attended one of his
Fourth of July client parties. Joe made her the
recipient of contact, care, and community.
The call from Helen to list her home

Business trust is built
on both character and
competence.

and find a condo took a little longer than
Joe expected—five years, to be precise. It was emotionally challenging
for her to sell her home even then, so Joe called her several times a day
because he knew she needed to talk. He also stayed in contact with her
after she moved into her new condo.
A few years later, Joe received a call from her son, who had recent­
ly acquired his real estate license. He told Joe his mother had passed
away and asked him to sell her condo.
"Why me?" Joe asked, "Why wouldn't you sell it yourself?"
Helen's son told Joe that he was the executor of his mother's
estate. "And it is specified in her will that you be the agent to handle
the sale of the property," he said. "She wouldn't trust anyone else to
sell her home."
I share this story to illustrate the impact and power of the contact,
care, community system. When you use the Three C's to create value


through trust, you win the loyalty of your clients. Having demonstrated
When you use the Three

your character and competence, they recog­
nize your value and trust you.

C's to create value

Applying this system will build a loyal
client following. Each and every year, you'll

through trust, you win the

garner more repeat and referral business from
your database. And who knows . . . maybe

loyalty of your clients.

one day someone will write your name into
their will as the agent to sell their home.

A ction Step

Memorize the Three C's to Success:
■

Contact

■

Care

■

Community

Chapter Nine

Sales Is a
Contact Sport
By Joe Niego

Without promotion, something terrible happens
—nothing.
P.T. Barnum

The best prize life offers is the chance to work hard
at work worth doing.
Theodore Roosevelt


Chapter Nine

Sales Is a
Contact Sport
Larry Underhill ventured into real estate after owning two tire shops—one suc­
cessful one not—in Lodi, California. His initial introduction to the real estate
business was as an investor. The more transactions he did, the more he liked
the real estate process, and he eventually became a full-time agent in 1984.
Larry loved working with people and the excitement of putting deals together,
but he unwittingly became a slave to the Transactional Approach.
"There were days when I knocked on 100 doors in 100-degree heat," says
Larry, broker/owner of Statesman Realty in Lodi. "And I punched so many
phone numbers that the end of my index finger became flat. I was closing
transactions but my tongue was hanging out. I was working too much and
enjoying it too little."
Apart from the burnout he was feeling, Larry was increasingly uncomfort­
able that his lead-generating methods were irritating people, who resented
being disturbed at home by a stranger soliciting business.
Thirteen years after he became an agent, Larry made a drastic change in
the way he searched for potential clients. "The relational, proactive approach
that I learned about at a Turning Point in Monterey, California, resonated
with me immediately," he says. "It felt like me and was the way I wanted to
treat people as I generated leads."
Instead of knocking on doors all day, Larry spends three hours doing PopBys at the homes of six to eight of his favorite clients. Instead of cold-calling
100 strangers, he checks in daily with 10 people he knows, always remember­
ing to say, "Oh, by the way . . . I'm never too busy for any of your referrals. "
And instead of an advertising budget, he spends a fraction of those dollars on
Items of Value, which he sends to people in his database every month.


Larry became a master at turning the relationships in his database into his
own personal sales force, who enthusiastically recommends him to people want­
ing to buy or sell a house. "I feel now that there is predictability to my income
and I have a business I'm proud of," Larry says. "I’ve done as many as 96
transactions in a single year, and I've dramatically increased my average sale
price and my gross commissions without burning myself out. Now I'm teach­
ing the Working by Referral system to all the agents in my office!"

The Recipe Lady or the Agent?
If you flip through the pages of magazines targeted to our industry,
you'll find plenty of marketing gimmicks that claim to keep your
name foremost in potential clients' minds.
I used them for a while. One year I mailed out baseball schedules
for the Chicago Cubs and the White Sox. The next year I sent out foot­
ball schedules for the Bears. Other agents regularly send out magnetic
calendars, jar openers, and ice scrapers—along with everyone else sell­
ing a service. But these items fail to highlight your character and com­
petence, which are the key attributes people look for in an agent.
Mary-Jean P. thought she had found the perfect strategy for maintaining
contact with her past clients. For more than a decade, she had sent them recipe
cards monthly. And when one of her former clients called to say, "I was think­
ing of you the other day," Mary-Jean silently praised her marketing strategy for
doing its job. But her client's next words cut Mary-Jean to the quick. "We just
sold our house and bought another. And I wanted to give you our new address
so you could continue sending me those wonderful recipe cards!"
In that moment, Mary-Jean realized her recipe cards hadn't done a thing
to generate referrals and repeat business from clients. "People thought of me as
the lady who sends recipe cards, not the agent to call for their real estate
needs," says Mary-Jean. "All that work of sending out cards for 10 years; I
was devastated."
Although Mary-Jean's recipes were appreciated by others, they didn't demon­
strate her professionalism. Consequently, the people in Mary-Jean’s database
remembered her culinary interest, not her skill as an agent.

Sales Is a Contact Sport

Making Meaningful Contact
Through Items of Value
Buffini & Company has devoted considerable effort to developing
what we call Items of Value to remind people in your database who
you are, what you do, and why they can trust you with their real estate
needs. Unlike baseball schedules or jar openers, which emphasize the
sender and the sale, these items focus on the recipients and their person­
al concerns. The message shifts from buy to I care about you. At the same
time, they remind the client that you have the competence they are
looking for in an agent or a lender.
Here are three examples of Items of Value you might consider
sending to people in your database:

Safeguard Your Identity
Nearly 30 million Americans have been the victims of identity theft,
which the FBI calls the fastest-growing type of crime today. "Safeguard
Your Identity" (see Figure 4) gives clients practical ways to protect
their financial security and privacy. To get them to open the envelope,

Figure 4. Safeguard Your Identity.
