Sales Is a Contact Sport

created "Remodeling Your Home by the Numbers" (see Figure 6)
which helps homeowners calculate how much of their remodeling
expenses they can recover when they sell.
For other examples and ideas for Items of Value go to www.buffini
andcompany.com.

Figure 6. Remodeling Your Home by the Numbers.

Game Plan for Making Systematic Contact
Sending Items of Value will communicate your care and competence,
but expressing your desire to receive referrals requires person-to-person contact. You can't just put things in the mail; you've got to call
and visit people to truly develop relationships.
Buffini & Company research shows that systematic contact is
seven times more effective in generating referrals when it includes
regular phone calls. By sending an Item of Value a few days in
advance, you've created a natural conversation opener when you
phone the recipient. Here's how a call might go:

Work by Referral Live the Good Life!

"Hi Harrison, this is Nolan at Niego Real Estate. I was just check­
ing to see if you received the information I sent about identify theft.
I don't know if you're aware of it, but identity theft is on the rise and
I wouldn't want any of my clients to become victims."
Harrison most likely will express his thanks and if he wants to
engage in small talk or exchange updates about family, I will gladly do
so. But if not, I keep the call short so I don't waste his time. The primary
purpose of the call is to say hello, affirm the value of your relationship,
and leave the gentlest of reminders at the end of the call: "Oh, by the way,
Harrison, I'm never too busy for any of your referrals."
We recommend that you maintain regular contact with the people in
your database by sending an Item of Value each month, followed by a
phone call. And if you're reluctant to make the calls, remember that there
is a big difference between telemarketing firms and you. Telemarketers are
trying to sell something. You're merely trying to find people who will be
your advocates in recommending your great service to those who need it.

Turning Contacts into Referrals
Maintaining regular contact also provides you with an opportunity to
build your business by:
• Educating clients on how the real estate industry works
• Articulating how you work
• Outlining the specific benefits that your clients enjoy
Brian and I have created the following Referral Dialog to help you
communicate these points. This Dialog is best used when first meet­
ing a client to explain how you work and to differentiate yourself from
others in the marketplace.

Educate your clients on how the industry works
"You know, most people in the real estate business spend the majori­
ty of their time and resources prospecting for new business by doing
things like cold-calling, door-knocking, sending direct mail, and buy­
ing advertising. "

Sales Is a Contact Sport

Articulate how you work
"J want to devote myself to serving the needs of my clients before,
during, and after each transaction. I would like to ask that you refer
people to me who would be great to work with. If you know anyone
who is thinking of buying or selling a home and would appreciate the
same level of attention I have given you, please give me their name
and business number and I'll be happy to follow up and take great
care of them. "
Outline the benefits to the client
"You see, as long as you and my other clients keep referring me, I can
continue working with good people like you. And instead of knocking
on doors, I can do an even better job of serving you."
You can adjust this Dialog to suit your own speaking style and the
client's situation. The purpose of this Dialog is to help clients see why
referrals make sense for you and for them.

Making a Lasting Impression
While Brian was growing up in Dublin painting houses with his
father, my four brothers and I spent our summer breaks from high
school working in our family's one-truck concrete business. My
father, Ron Niego, owned Meta Concrete, which poured hundreds of
miles of sidewalks and driveways throughout Chicago's South Side.
My dad taught me that the quality of the preparation work we did
before we poured the concrete would determine how long the work
would last. Although enduring quality wouldn't be apparent to cus­
tomers initially, my dad insisted that we go the extra mile to give our
customers true value and to never cut corners.
While we were putting the final touches on a newly poured side­
walk or driveway, my dad would assess our work and only when it
met his standard did he impress "Meta Concrete" and our home
phone number into the fresh concrete with a brass stamp. Today,
when I go to the South Side of Chicago, I can still see some of the
thousands of impressions we made by literally putting our name on
our work.


My father didn't spend money on advertising. He did good work and
let his reputation speak for itself. In time, past clients referred him to new
clients, who referred him to others. To this day, when people on Chicago's
South Side think of concrete, our family's company often comes to mind.
I want you to experience the same customer loyalty in your busi­
ness. When you have done great work for a client, you need to keep
that memory vivid in your client's mind. Just like my father's brass
stamp, the monthly Items of Value and follow-up calls will create a
lasting positive impression. Instead of thinking of you as the "recipe
person" or never thinking of you at all, your competence as an agent
or lender will always come to mind.

A ction Steps
■

Establish which Items of Value you will use to make contact
with your database each month. Make sure it communicates
your character and competence.

■

To learn more about our Referral System's Lead-Generation
Kit and get ready-to-mail Items of Value, visit
www.buffmiandcompany.com.

■

Memorize The Referral Dialog and use it during the
follow-up call.

Chapter Ten

Care: Moving
Beyond Buying
and Selling
By Brian Buffini

Treat other people exactly as you would like
to be treated by them...
Matthew 7:12
No act of kindness, no matter how small is ever wasted.
Aesop


Chapter Ten

Care: Moving
Beyond Buying
and Selling
Like most Americans on September 11, 2001, Paul Hunter stared transfixed
at his television screen as images played over and over of the World Trade
Center in New York being attacked by suicide bombers and later collapsing.
Only a few miles from his home in northern Virginia, the Pentagon was in
flames from another terrorist attack.
Beyond his outrage and shock over the attack that shook Americans'
security to the core, Paul also struggled with another deep foreboding. Only 10
days earlier he'd received his real estate license. Starting a new real estate
career in the aftermath of Pill was definitely bad timing.
Although Paul had been earning a substantial salary as an IT executive,
frequent travel took him away from his wife and two young children, and he
feared that he would miss too much of his family's life. When Hunter and his
wife, Andrea, mulled over the types of careers that offered flexible hours,
unlimited income potential, and the ability to be his own boss, selling real
estate topped the list.
Now Paul obsessed over the jeopardy in which he had placed his family's
financial future as he watched the airline industry ground all commercial flights,
the stock market tank, and anthrax infiltrate the postal system. Maybe his for­
mer colleagues were right when they told him he was crazy for abandoning his
swift climb up the corporate ladder. How could he have been so irresponsible to
switch to real estate when there were no prospective clients in sight?
Andrea, watching her husband consumed by stress, told him she would
be willing to sell their new house and live in an apartment so he could stop


worrying about the mortgage and focus all his energy on getting his new career
o ff the ground. His wife's belief in him and offer to sacrifice the family's
comfort fueled Paul's motivation—he vowed to succeed, no matter what the
circumstances.
A fellow agent referred Paul to a Turning Point in Tyson's Corner,
Virginia, where he learned about the Working by Referral system. Paul jet­
tisoned the passive-cold and proactive-cold sales approaches he'd been using
and started building and qualifying his database. He learned Dialogs to help
him better communicate his requests for referrals. And he wrote a personal
note to each of the 128 people in his database.
During the holiday season, he did a number of Pop-Bys. People in a
community still reeling from their close encounter with terrorism opened,
read, and appreciated Paul's handwritten notes and were impressed with the
time he took to visit them.
As a result of Paul's heartfelt care and concern for the people in his data­
base, he began receiving a steady stream of referrals. Paul closed over $13
million in production his first full year in the business. And the Hunter fam ­
ily has never again given thought to selling their home.

Giving Against the Grain
One of the biggest complaints people have about agents is their appar­
ent lack of concern for their clients. "All they care about is closing the
deal and cashing the commission check," is an all too-frequent gripe.
In part, that lack of care is due to what Thomas L. Friedman,
author of the bestselling "The World Is Flat" and a columnist for The
New York Times, calls "continuous partial attention." We're all moving
so quickly and monitoring multiple tasks simultaneously that we fail
to give our full attention to anything.
Agents are some of the biggest practitioners of continuous partial
attention. As you drive to a closing, what are you thinking about?
Probably not how you are going to maintain an ongoing relationship
with your clients, who, by the way, may think you are the best thing since
sliced bread. You're probably thinking about the next deal and where
you're going to find it. Without any future expression of care from you,

Care: Moving Beyond Buying and Selling

your clients may feel deserted and forgotten. Your opportunity to receive
referrals from that couple just vanished.
You can, however, replace continuous partial attention to your
clients with consistent intentional attention by staying in touch with
them, writing notes to everyone in your database, and doing Pop-Bys.

The Power of the Written Word
The most powerful and least expensive way to deepen a relationship
with a client is to send a handwritten personal note—a rare find in
anyone's mailbox these days.
Personal notes have been the corner­

Surrounded by so

stone of our business for 20 years but now,
more than ever, they represent true value

much slick direct-mail

to our clients. Surrounded by so much
slick direct-mail advertising, computerized

advertising, computerized

phone messages, and mass e-mail messages,
people crave the human connection and

phone messages, and

intimacy that a handwritten note conveys.
A handwritten note will always get read.
I can't imagine tossing one in the trash can

mass e-mail messages,
people crave the human

without opening it. And neither will your
clients. Yes, note writing does take time. But

connection and intimacy

if you're consistent about carving out a

that a handwritten

small amount of time every day to write
them, the task won't consume you. Keep a

note conveys.

stack of note cards and envelopes on your
desk, and each morning before you check your e-mail messages, write
a pre-determined number of notes. Three notes a day add up to 15 a
week or 60 a month. Imagine making 60 meaningful impressions on
your client base every month!
The message from a handwritten note lingers, unlike an e-mail
message that is often quickly deleted. A good note isn't about express­
ing yourself, however. It's about listening to your clients and writing
something that will resonate with their needs, hurts, or desires.


Make the note personal. Mention the kids by name or the family dog
who kept nudging your arm asking for another pat on the head. Thank
them for the referral they sent you, taking the time to meet, or the coffee
and donuts you shared. And make sure you
write the note in your own handwriting, even
If you're a new agent and
if it's less than perfect.
After an appointment, it's a good idea to
don't yet have any
clients, you can certainly

jot down a few thoughts so that you don't for­
get the personal details about someone to

write a two- or three-sen­

whom you'll send a note. Also, send a person­
al note after your Item of Value follow-up call

tence note to people in

to the people in your database. Remember to
stay on top of your notes and don't let the

your database "just to

demands of the day deter you from writing a

stay in touch. "

few every day.
If you're a new agent and don't yet have
any clients, you can certainly write a two- or

three-sentence note to people in your database "just to stay in touch." Go
to www.buffiniandcompany.com for examples of personal notes that Joe
and I have written. Paul Hunter would undoubtedly vouch for the power
of a handwritten personal note—and the need to write them every day.
Let me share with you a favorite story that shows the power of a per­
sonal note. I received a call from Bill, a past client. He wanted to refer
me to his father's friend. After relaying as much information as he had,
Bill added, "Be as gentle as you can Brian; this man just lost his wife."
After thanking him, I put a call in to William M. and after a short
conversation, he invited me to view his home. As I met Will at the
door, I asked him to give me a tour of his home. As we walked from
room to room, it was apparent he was more interested in showing me
pictures of his kids and grandkids that hung on every wall. Every third
or fourth sentence, he would mention his late wife, Miriam.
Eventually we wound up at the kitchen table. As we began to dis­
cuss the prospect of listing his house for sale, he became quite emo­
tional. I called my assistant to re-schedule an appointment that was

Care: Moving Beyond Buying and Selling

making me feel rushed, sat back down and said, "Let's forget about
your house right now. Tell me all about your family."
He relaxed, and began to tell me about his wife of 46 years and how
she had waited for him while he served in World War II. He talked about
their kids and their first home—all the stories interspersed with memories
of Kennedy's assassin, the Vietnam War and the 1980 U.S. Hockey
Team-Miracle on Ice.
Will had seen a lot of life and I thoroughly enjoyed our time togeth­
er, but a thought kept haunting me: Will didn't seem interested in mov­
ing to be with his daughter. He seemed more resigned to moving on to be
with his wife.
Upon leaving, I told him I would be in touch to further discuss the sale
of his home when he was ready. When I got back to my office, I wrote Will
a thank you note. I thanked him for showing me his home, and also let
him know how he had inspired me. I told him I hoped that after 46 years
of marriage, I would still be in love with my wife the way he was with his.
Three months later we listed and sold his house and he moved to
Ohio to be with his daughter.
Fifteen years later, I got a phone call over the Christmas Holidays from
Will's daughter to let me know her father had passed. She wanted me to
know that when they read his eulogy from his personal Bible, the book­
mark he used for his daily scripture readings was the letter I had sent all
those years ago. "We read the letter," she said, "It must have made quite
an impact on him."
Never underestimate the power of the personal note. Sometimes it's
just what someone needs to hear that day.

Making Contact Face to Face
Staying in contact with people is a key to Working by Referral. Sending a
personal note has a big impact and is a highly leveraged activity. And
when done in conjunction with Pop-Bys, you deepen the relationships in
your database overnight.
A Pop-By is a method we use to stay connected on a person-to-person
basis. Unlike a personal note, a Pop-By is interactive. You get a chance to
