Care: Moving Beyond Buying and Selling

your competence. Give of who you are, not of what you have. For
more ideas on Pop-By gifts go to www.buffiniandcompany.com.

A Message from "The Pop-By Queen"
Mary Beth Eisenhard of Gainesville, Virginia, is often thought of as the
"Pop-By Queen."
After retiring as Lieutenant Colonel in the U.S. Army, Mary Beth and
her husband, Scot, left Fort Reilly, Kansas and bought a home in Thousand
Oaks, California in 1993. Searching for a new career, Mary Beth accepted
her real estate agent's offer to be her assistant. In 1994, she got her real
estate license and ventured o ff on her own.
"My first few months on my own, I had doubts whether I had what it
takes to be successful in this business," recalls Mary Beth. "I knew I loved
socializing with people, but I didn't know how to use my social skills to gen­
erate leads." Then Mary Beth attended the Turning Point and discovered
Pop-Bys, which she credits with launching her real estate career. "Making
phone calls and writing notes are activities I struggle to do consistently. I
would much rather visit with people," she says.
Some of her favorite Pop-By gifts have been holiday music CDs, heartshaped cookies on Valentine's Day, and home-made pumpkin bread in the fall.
Just as Mary Beth began gaining confidence that she was going to be
successful as a real estate agent, Scot's job transferred to Huntsville,
Alabama. Not knowing a soul in Huntsville, Mary Beth once again had to
build her real estate business from the bottom up with two tools: her ease
with people and the tried-and-true Pop-Bys.
Just as business started to take o ff in Huntsville, her husband transferred
once again, this time to northern Virginia. Starting up a new real estate
business for the third time, Mary Beth again relied on Pop-Bys to build refer­
rals. "Even though the housing market is different in the three states I've
worked, Pop-Bys have allowed me to use my personality to build a successful
real estate business wherever I go," says Mary Beth.
"This year I will close over $8 million in production," she says.
"Hopefully we won't get transferred again. But if we do, even at age 54 I
have no fear of starting over because I have Pop-Bys in my arsenal!"


Keep That Referral Point of View
I can hear some of you now saying, "Hey, my main business is sell­
ing homes. But now these guys want me to become my city's social
director!" We understand your concern. But as we've said before, you
are not in the house business, you're in the business of generating
leads. And if you want to succeed, you need to devote a significant
chunk of your time and energy caring for the people who will refer
leads to you.
You don't need to take a course on interpersonal communication
to make a phone call, write a note, or do a Pop-By. But if calling on
people makes you anxious at first, role-play with a family member or
friend. All you are really doing is greeting someone with a smile and
extending your hand with a token gift. Be personable, say hello, ask
how they are doing, and talk about the small gift you brought.
Remember to end with, "Oh, by the way . . . I'm never too busy to take
care of your referrals."
If Paul Hunter could be successful generating referrals immediately
after 9/11, when many people in Virginia didn't want to open their mail
or their doors because of terrorism and anthrax, you surely can, too.

A ction Step
Pop-By 15 of your favorite clients. Check out
www.buffmiandcompany.com for Pop-By gift ideas.
Afterward, send each one of your clients a hand-written,
personal note.

Chapter Eleven

Community:
Creating a
Client for Life
By Brian Buffini

Every business is built on friendship.
J. C. Penny
Our favorite holding period is forever.
Warren Buffett


Chapter Eleven

Community:
Creating a
Client for Life

I

like Merriam-Webster's definition of community as a body of per­

sons of common interests scattered through a larger society. People
want to connect with like-minded individuals and socialize with

those who have similar interests. In this chapter, we will delve into the
social aspects of community. In Chapter 12 we will explore the busi­
ness-networking opportunity inside community.
Worries over her husband's cardiac condition and her own financial
future led Phyllis Glover to abandon a 20-year career teaching high school
and college English to pursue a real estate license. "If my husband was unable
to work, I didn't know how I would pay the mortgage on a teacher's salary,"
says Phyllis of Dallas, Texas. "Plus, I needed a more flexible work schedule
than teaching allowed."
When Phyllis started selling real estate in 1985, interest rates hovered at
15 percent, foreclosures were hitting record highs, and agents were exiting the
profession. "I felt like I was all dressed up to go to the party, but nobody was
there," recalls Phyllis.
Where was she going to find clients in such a dismal real estate market?
Phyllis turned to geographical farming to develop leads. "There were over
2,000 people in my geographical farm," she says. “It was costly and I wasn't
building relationships."
Then Phyllis' Buffini & Company Business Coach, Carol Peterson, chal­
lenged her to focus on community, one of the Three C's. The idea was to strate­
gically build a sense of community among the people in Phyllis' database as a
