Community: Creating a Client for Life

like Facebook and MySpace, which have attracted millions of users.
This clearly demonstrates individuals' built-in desire to connect, but it
also serves as a reminder that the age-old
places of connection are not satisfying the
By hosting social events,
needs of people any longer. Today people
have a hard time meeting one another,

you can create a vibrant

which has resulted in the incredible growth
of dating Web sites, for example.

community network

Agents and lenders are in an excellent
position to restore some of that connected­
ness that is so lacking today. By hosting

with the people in your
database, strengthening

social events, you can create a vibrant com­
munity network with the people in your
database, strengthening relationships and
building loyalty. Your clients' lives will be
richer for it and so will your business. In

relationships and
building loyalty.

fact, fostering community is essential to your business.

Building Community Through Client Parties
Like any personal relationship, the greater the contact with the people in
your database, the stronger their bond will be with you. Think about the
concept of breaking bread and how significant it is to building relation­
ships. The major holidays like Thanksgiving, Hanukkah, Christmas, and
Easter are always centered on a great meal. People developing a roman­
tic relationship frequently share a meal. And besides, any system devel­
oped by Irishmen must have an emphasis on eating and drinking!
Client parties allow you to give generously to those in your database
and make it more comfortable to ask for referrals later. Your parties will
also provide a chance for folks to interact with like-minded people, so
they'll have a great experience, too.
We realize that some of the suggestions below for client parties can
be pricey. But with a little creativity, you can keep the cost to a minimum
and still show people a good time. Here are a few examples of client par­
ties that have worked well for us.


Housewarming party
While you're working with buyers, mention that you'd like to host a
housewarming party for them two to four months after they move into
their new home. Once they close the deal,
When your clients'
offer to send out the invitations, call all the
guests, and provide finger food, refresh­
friends come to the party
ments, and desserts. (Skip the alcohol.)
When your clients' friends come to the
and share in the excite­
party and share in the excitement of a new
ment of a new home,
home, some may be inspired to think about
finding a new house of their own. They are
some may he inspired to
also getting a first-hand look at how you
treat your clients and probably wondering
think about finding a
why their agents never gave them house­
warming parties after they bought their
new house of their own.
homes.
After the party, call the attendees to thank them for joining the cel­
ebration and to ask the Mayor Campaign question: "If you were buy­
ing or selling a home, or had a family member or friend who was, do
you have an agent you'd refer them to?" Chances are several will say
No, so you've just realized an opportunity to increase the size of your
database.
Client appreciation party
I use this party to deepen the connection with my past clients and my
A clients as well as other relationships I've developed through my
business. This is typically an annual event designed to thank them for
their support, continuing patronage, and for their referrals. It gives
you a chance to go all out if you'd like.
We've seen agents host casino-theme nights, costume parties, summer
events, ethnic fests, and tailgate parties. I opt for a Fourth of July party,
which dovetails with our company's practice of distributing 16,000
American flags throughout the neighborhood. The party is a lot of fun
and generates referrals for us each year. If you would like to see pictures
from my Client Appreciation Party go to www.buffmiandcompany.com.

Community: Creating a Client for Life

It's important to note that parties greatly add to the compounding
effect on your business. In addition to the calls, notes, Pop-Bys, and
Items of Value, parties serve as a catalyst for referred business.

Business mixer
Every business owner welcomes the opportunity to increase customer
referrals through networking. Plan a mixer with punch and finger food
and invite all the business owners in your database as well as owners
of companies to whom you refer clients.
Tell them you'd like to introduce local business owners—includ­
ing yourself—so they can get to know one another and perhaps refer
customers. (Some of your guests may be willing to share the costs of a
networking party.)

A+ client party
This party is a more intimate and possibly lavish gathering for those
who consistently send you referrals. Your business owes them a debt
of gratitude, so generously reward them. Rent a private room in an
exclusive restaurant, invite them to your home and hire a chef, or per­
haps rent a yacht for an evening's dinner cruise. It's important that, in
addition to all the other parties and perks your business provides, you
take time to set aside a unique experience for this special group of
people.
Vendor celebrations
Why not invite your vendors to a party? On average, there are 26 serv­
ices involved 30 days before, during and 30 days after a real estate
transaction: contractors to decorators, accountants to movers, and
everything in between.
These people typically serve not just you, but many other profes­
sionals in the real estate space. Yet their work often goes without
thanks or appreciation. When you throw a party for this group, it dis­
tinguishes you from the other agents with whom they work. Also, the
vast majority of agents aren't going to be asking for their referrals,
which sets you apart and puts you in a good position to make clients


of vendors and their friends. And building a sense of connection with
these service providers creates a team environment as you work
together throughout the year.

Building Community Through Business Lunches
Taking someone to lunch creates an oppor­
The one-on-one
interaction can cement
a relationship and
business lunches are
easy to fit into the
workday.

tunity to build community in your data­
base, one relationship at a time. The oneon-one interaction can cement a relation­
ship and business lunches are easy to fit
into the workday.
We've found that people who run
smaller businesses and service industries
are often starving for information on gener­
ating their own leads and referrals. Here is
the Dialog our Coaches recommend when

inviting a business owner to lunch:
"Hi Anthony, this is Anna of Jackson Realty. I don't know if I men­
tioned it to you, but I'm currently using a Business Coach to help me
devise ways to increase my referrals. I was thinking that this infor­
mation might be very helpful in your business and I'd be happy to
share it with you. Does this sound like something you’d be interested
in? Why don't we get together for lunch, and I'll bring my Coaching
manual to show you what I'm learning. ”
If you are having lunch with vendors, be sure to let them know
that you refer people to them when you can, and then ask them for
their referrals. The law of reciprocity benefits you and the vendor.
Some of you may already be taking business associates to lunch
on a regular basis, but perhaps you could do so in a more strategic
manner in order to build a stronger business-to-business community
network. This benefits not just you, but also the others you incorpo­
rate into the community.

Community: Creating a Client for Life

Partying His Way to the Top
Upon graduating from Baylor University with a degree in business administra­
tion, Morgan Davis was quickly recruited by EDS, a company founded by Ross
Perot, in Plano, Texas.
Morgan spent two years working as a systems analyst before deciding he
wanted a career that was more relational. He thought he had found it when he
joined the staff of Young Life, a Christian youth outreach ministry program for
the inner city kids of Portland, Oregon. But the financial demands of a growing
family eventually forced Morgan to look for another opportunity. A friend in the
real estate business, who had a Buffini & Company Coach, recognized Morgan's
talents and hired him as an assistant.
"I was exploding with excitement and passion for the potential this business
offered," says Morgan, who soon became an agent. "I learned about the power
of the Working by Referral system and was anxious to harness it."
Morgan implemented every aspect of the Working by Referral system. He
built his database, then sorted and qualified it. He faithfully does the calls, notes
and Pop-Bys. He memorized the Dialogs and uses them every time he interacts
with a client. And he throws grand client parties that no one wants to miss.
Every October, with the help of his staff and a few friends, he hosts a party
with catered food, game show-like entertainment, and recognition and awards
for his top referral sources. Last year, every one of his 200 guests left with a fleece
jacket as a gift. The only way to attend this gala event is to have bought or sold
a home with Morgan, or sent him a referral.
"The volume of referrals I receive peaks every year during the months of
August, September, and October," Morgan, 45, explains. "I guess everyone wants
to guarantee an invitation to the party."
Although referrals have resulted in production of over $40 million a year for
Morgan, he doesn't intend for his party to be simply a referral generator. "My
client party is an excellent opportunity for me to spend time with my clients and
a gracious way to say thank you for trusting me with their real estate business,"
he says. "This business can often make you feel like you're all alone. The won­
derful thing about Working by Referral is building a feeling of community with
people in your database who are willing to refer you, endorse you, and be your
advocates. I’m not chasing clients; I'm surrounded by friends."


A ction Step

Choose of one of the Community Strategies and execute on it.
(Circle one)
■

Housewarming Party

■

Client Appreciation Party

■

Business Mixer

■

A+ Client Party

■

Vendor Celebration

■

Business Lunch
