. 1p j r: 7r~\

r{a


a

C . £

/ u

{y j n ox
/^ 7 ,' ~ J


/v


r
n


r

S~~

C h apter T w elve

Taking Care
of Business

r

r .o

A (X
1y . J

By Brian Buffini

■

b j

rX ,

rxx
/XXXXr

Alone we can do so little; together we can do so much.
Helen Keller


n


In business for yourself, not by yourself.


Ray Kroc

r
n $ "
p /
■!

■O ' ^ ©B©B©B©B©B©B©B©B©B©B©B©B©B©B©B©B©B©B©B©B©B©B©B©i
-J


u
7 Y )~

r


J

C - ° " )
p

s
n
0 ;
• •-

A

■0

m

/ 7 ,
.A

r


-Y


I I I )

...A


•0

r x
•i )


j

r
f

fJ

7 " ', r>

r

,fx
/X X X

A

’ .. ..


Chapter Twelve

Taking Care
of Business
As Neville G. sat in the reception area of one of the largest banks in Southern
California, he stared down at his scrubbed hands, which still held stubborn
traces of black tar from his roofing business. He had on a suit for the first
time since marrying his bride 11 years before. But despite his pending
appointment with Frank S., the bank's president, he wasn't at all nervous.
Frank and Neville already had a great relationship. When the bank repos­
sessed a foreclosed property, Neville knew he'd get a call to inspect the roof
and remedy any problems.
I was also at this appointment at the encouragement of Neville, whose
roofing business I had been promoting to people in my database for several
years. Neville's business was also included in my referral directory of the best
San Diego businesses. As we were ushered into the president's office, I couldn't
help but notice a two-foot stack of brochures and promotional pieces from
real estate agents in the corner of Frank's office. I was also courting the
bank's business, but I was taking a very different tack. Neville made the
introductions and proceeded to describe my business and how I served my
clients and facilitated referrals to numerous businesses in town. Within 15
minutes, I had acquired my biggest client.
"We take Neville's endorsement very seriously, Brian, since we know him
so well," said Frank. “We're averaging 10 foreclosures a month right now
and are in need of a good agent to represent us. Let's get started on a couple
of listings to see how we all work together."
Over the next four years, I sold dozens of homes for this bank—often
to buyers from my database that I had been cultivating.


What a lucky break for Brian, you may be thinking. But luck had lit­
tle to do with it. I had paved the way for my relationship with the bank
by actively driving leads to Neville's roofing business, and when he had
an opportunity to reciprocate, he was more than happy to do so.
And I was extremely grateful to have the bank as a client during the
challenging San Diego real estate market in the early '90s. With the Cold
War over, many local defense contractors instituted massive layoffs,
which caused many people to leave the city. Interest rates also skyrock­
eted and housing prices plummeted 30 percent. But although more
than half the agents on my local real estate board left the business under
these difficult conditions, my net income tripled between 1990 and
1995. The reason for my success: 40 percent of my income came from
referrals from the solid business-to-business network I had built.
I found that it was relatively easy to ask business owners for refer­
rals—especially if I was already referring my customers to them. My
business contacts also brought me a higher-quality clientele, which
increased my average sales price. These referred people were highly
motivated to use me for their real estate needs because the endorse­
ment I had received was both a personal and professional one.

Networking with Business Owners
You undoubtedly have your own business network in place; the aver­
age real estate transaction, as we've said, involves 26 services. (Go to
www.buffmiandcompany.com for the complete list of services.) But to
capitalize on those relationships, you need to nurture them so your
business associates have an incentive to refer their customers to you.
Here are some ways to ensure that your business associates are always
thinking of you when someone they know needs an agent or lender.

Join more groups
Perhaps you're already part of a networking organization in your local
area. But now that you realize the power of business referrals, you may
want to investigate becoming an active member of additional groups,
such as BNI, Kiwanis, and your chamber of commerce.

Taking Care of Business

Host a business mixer
Business people enjoy being with each other. By hosting a mixer of
local business owners, you make yourself the central hub in a commu­
nity of closely connected people. After all, the two things everyone in
the room will have in common are owning a business and their rela­
tionship with you.
Seek out social gatherings
One of the major mistakes I see agents make
is taking themselves out of circulation. Early
in their careers they probably enthusiastical­
ly networked at social functions. But as their
client rosters grew, they preferred the com­
fort of sitting in their offices instead of mak­
ing the effort to meet new people. But guess
what? The people with whom you share an
office aren't going to use you to buy or sell
their homes. So overcome your inertia and
accept those invitations to socialize.

One of the major
mistakes I see agents
make is taking
themselves out
of circulation.

Learn together
Real estate professionals are inundated with offers to attend personal
and professional development courses, probably more so than other
business people. Invite three or four business owners in your commu­
nity to attend a seminar that is of interest to all of you. Spending the
day together is a great opportunity to deepen your relationship so that
asking for referrals comes naturally.
Put on a seminar
I would often host a seminar for people in my database on a topic
such as how to buy investment real estate. I'd ask my financial plan­
ner and accountant to be guest speakers and prepared marketing
materials to entice people to attend.
During the event, the accountant outlined the tax benefits and strate­
gies of investing the financial planner discussed owning real estate as part
Ill


of an overall investment portfolio, and I would show specific exam­
ples of homes on the market with investment potential. The account­
ant, financial planner, and I all benefited from referrals as a result of
the seminar.

Break bread together
Everyone, no matter how busy, has to eat. Consider that every signifi­
cant social event in life is accompanied by food, so it's no wonder that
people who share a meal together usually forge a more intimate con­
nection with each other. Make sure your calendar is filled up with
breakfasts, lunches, or coffees dates with business owners you can
refer your customers to and who will reciprocate in kind.
Build a business directory
The cornerstone of my business-to-business strategy was the directory
I created listing all the best tradespeople and services in San Diego,
which became a resource for every homeowner.
The businesses in the directory were compiled by recommenda­
tions from those in my database as well as from my personal experi­
ences. I sent everyone in my database a letter titled "Help me help
you" asking them for all the local businesses they endorsed. (Go to
www.buffiniandcompanv.com to see a copy of the letter.) Over 78
people in my database responded by phone to tell my assistant about
an experience they had with a particular business.
My directory grew with all the names of businesses the people in
my database endorsed as superior, making it a valuable resource for
everyone who received it. But the names also expanded my network of
businesses I could refer my customers to—and potentially get referrals
from them.
Assembling the directory also allowed me to discover the super­
advocates in my database. When someone convincingly sells you on
the merits of a particular restaurant, you get a pretty good idea how
they might extol your attributes as an agent. This went from being my
business directory to being our business directory as it became a musthave for my community of clients.

Taking Care of Business

If you're just starting to build your business network, I recommend
compiling a Top 10 list of the businesses you refer customers to and
send it to the people in your database as an Item of Value. As the list
grows, you can print it as a directory or post it on your Web site.

A ction Steps

Collect a list of the Top Ten Businesses you refer or have the
potential to refer. These businesses will be the foundation of
your Business Directory.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.

8.
9.
10 .

Add these names to your database.
Go to www.buffmiandcompany.com to learn about generating
more referrals from your business directory.
