Chapter 13

Winning the Day

T

o watch the movie "The March of the Penguins" is to be awe­
struck at the dogged determination displayed by the emperor
penguins of Antarctica during their annual breeding migration.

At the onset of the mating season, the male and female penguins will
travel some 70 miles over rough terrain to their breeding grounds.
After mating, the female transfers her egg to her mate for safekeeping
and waddles and slides another 70 miles to feed in open water for the
first time in two months. Meanwhile, the males huddle together on
the ice, braving temperatures of minus 80 degrees and winds of 200
mph, to guard the eggs. By the time the males make their own 70-mile
trek to eat after the females return, they've lost half their body weight.
Summing up this ritual of selfless devotion, the film's narrator,
Morgan Freeman, says, "In the harshest place on earth, love finds a
way." The penguins achieve this herculean goal by using the strategy
that I use in my real estate business called
"winning the day."
How do these birds accomplish such a

You need to focus on

seemingly daunting task? By taking one step
at a time, one day at a time. Just like these

making measurable

"land-challenged" animals, you need to
focus on making measurable progress in

progress in generating
leads each day in order

generating leads each day in order to
accomplish your production goals.
In this chapter, I will share the five

to accomplish your

habits you must incorporate into your busi­

production goals

ness to keep you motivated and focused on
winning the day. But first you must agree to abandon the "microwave
mentality."


No Shortcuts to Generating Leads
When Amana introduced the $495 home microwave oven more than
40 years ago, the Radarange not only revolutionized the way people
cooked, it forever changed how we view time. Wanting everything
instantly—meals, the perfect physique, career and financial success—
is a result of what I and others term the "microwave mentality."
Our TV dramas solve complex problems in 30 or 60 minutes, and
advertisers would have us believe that improving self-esteem can be
achieved immediately with the right car or toothpaste. So it's no sur­
prise that people who attend our Turning Points arrive with a
microwave mentality, hoping we'll reveal the secret to instant success.
I'm sorry to say that a formula for an instant career transformation
doesn't exist. Anything touted as a "quick fix" will likely result in dashed
The only way to make

expectations when success doesn't material­
ize. And the sense of failure these schemes

lasting change is to foster

engender gives rise to negative momentum.
This can cause us to lose the day, the week,

winning habits. And the

the month, and ultimately the year.
The only way to make lasting change is

single most important

to foster winning habits. And the single
most important habit for a real estate pro­

habit for a real estate
professional to develop

fessional to develop is to execute lead-gen­
eration activities every single workday:
•

Making check-in calls with clients
and people in your database

•

Writing personal notes

•

Doing Pop-Bys

•

Adding new people to your

is to execute leadgeneration activities
every single workday.

database
Naturally there will be days when you simply can't find the time
or energy to generate leads. Our advice, however, is to make this the
exception to the rule.

Winning the Day

Vince Lombardi, the famed coach of the Green Bay Packers, knew
something about the rewards of practicing good habits. "Winning is
not a sometime thing; it's an all time thing," he said. "You don't win
once in a while, you don't do things right once in a while, you do
them right all the time. Winning is habit. Unfortunately, so is losing."
Following are the habits you need to develop in order to win the day.

Habit 1: Focus on your goals
Have you ever experienced emotional swings during a week in real
estate? If you are like me, you may have a few clients who buy and a
couple listings that sell. That puts you on top of the world! Then, you
get a client with buyer's remorse who wants out of a deal—after you've
been working with him for three months. Next, the home inspector
says the sold listing you've had on the market for six months has mold
in the attic and a bad heat exchanger in the furnace; the buyers want
their earnest money returned. You schedule an appointment with the
dentist just to alleviate your stress.
In our business, you have
In our business, you have to accept a cer­
tain amount of turbulence. But if you neg­
to accept a certain
lect making calls, writing notes, and doing
Pop-Bys during the rough patches, you'll
amount of turbulence.
lose first one day, followed by another, and
pretty soon you've lost several weeks. Now you have no listings or buy­
ers to work with, all because you took your eye off the prize.
When I am feeling tired and a little down, I use my goals to inspire
me to win the day. I always carry my annual goals with me on a 3 x 5
card and refer to them whenever I need a boost. Here are a few of my
goals:
• Fully fund educational savings accounts for my children
• Contribute the maximum amount to my retirement account
• Purchase one piece of investment real estate each year
• Hire help for Julie (my wife) with the kids
• Go on a "date night" with Julie every week


• Donate to causes I believe in
• Close 225 transactions this year
So if I don't win the day, I know that I'm shortchanging my children's
education, the amount of time I spend with Julie, my retirement nest egg,
Many agents aim for

and my charitable intentions.
Why do the penguins march 70 miles? For

nothing and hit it with

them, it's a matter of survival. Why do you sell
real estate? Many agents aim for nothing and

amazing accuracy.
Setting clear goals is

hit it with amazing accuracy. Setting clear
goals is crucial to wanting to succeed.
At our seminars, Brian and I have helped
over a million people set meaningful goals,

crucial to wanting

and we receive hundreds of notes each year
from agents and lenders sharing how their

to succeed.

goals kept them focused on winning the day
and bring meaning to their work.

Habit 2: Structure your work
Perhaps the most attractive aspect of the real estate business is the person­
al freedom and flexibility it offers agents and lenders. As independent con­
tractors, we are our own bosses and can work
the hours we choose. But that very freedom is
To be successful, you
part of the reason our industry turns over 70
percent of its sales force every three years.
have to run your
People who define freedom as working with­
out structure aren't going to make it in this
business like a business
field. To be successful, you have to mn your
and treat it as a job.
business like a business and treat it as a job.
And that requires structured work habits.
Early in my career I discovered that the more structure I had in my day,
the more freedom and flexibility I experienced. That's not as contradictory
as it sounds. By blocking off two hours a day for phone calls, notes and
Pop-Bys, I received the treasured referrals I was after. I also spent less and
earned more.

Winning the Day

Brian and I could write an entire book on how to structure your
schedule, but let me give you a few ideas to consider.
Start time:
Most agents head into the office whenever the spirit moves them. But
establishing a consistent time to start your day is one of the most pro­
ductive things you can do. For me it is 9:00 a.m. The time doesn't have
to be early; it just needs to be scheduled.
Breaks:
It is extremely difficult to be 100-percent productive all day long. I've
always scheduled two 30-minute breaks into my day. The perfect time
for me is right after an hour of generating leads.
Lunch:
Two-hour lunches are not uncommon among agents. Leisurely lunch­
es are fine now and then, but just make sure you schedule them so
they don't become a daily event.
Handling transactions:
The follow-through on a transaction can consume your entire day if
you let it. Be proactive and schedule time to make all calls regarding
transactions uninterrupted. Leave a detailed message for the person
you're calling, and ask for a detailed message in return.
Day's end:
You probably head home from the office every day feeling guilty
because there is at least one task left undone. That feeling will never
go away; I still have it after 20 years. Learning to manage the guilt has
been key for me, however. If I'm not listing a property, writing a con­
tract, or presenting a contract, any tasks that are pending can wait until
tomorrow. You must schedule the time your day will end for your sake
as well as your family's.
Time blocking:
The most important habit to develop to ensure that you spend two
hours a day generating leads is time blocking. This is a technique of
scheduling uninterrupted time to execute an activity, which, in this


case, involves making calls, writing notes, and doing Pop-Bys. You can
be flexible about when you schedule your time block, but just make
sure you do it daily. Freedom follows only when you make productiv­
ity your first priority.

Habit 3: Create a Personal Business Standard
Have you ever come home at the end of a long day feeling beat up and
tired but not sure what you accomplished? That's because we typical­
ly spend our days putting out the fires that seem to break out hourly
in this business. Often the only way we gauge whether we've had a
good day is if we've put a transaction together or collected a check.
There are very few people who close 365 deals a year, so we must
focus on achieving success in accomplishing
daily activities, not just end results. The best
The best way to measure
way to measure the effectiveness of your day
is to have a personal business standard. This
the effectiveness of your
tool allows you to set a daily goal for the
day is to have a personal
lead-generating activities you want to exe­
cute. Thousands of agents in our Coaching
business standard.
program earn six-figure incomes by holding
themselves accountable to a personal busi­
ness standard like the one below.
Personal Business Standard
Calls

Notes

Pop-Bys

1 (7 per week)

New additions to database

Make sure your daily goals are clearly defined. Using a calendar,
place a huge "W" (for win) on the days you hit your personal business
standard. As a wise man once told me, "What gets measured gets done."

Winning the Day

Habit 4: Take action
I've seen many agents paralyzed by perfectionism. Wanting to do a task
flawlessly, they never get beyond the first step. Of course you want to do
a good job, but you have to do it in the time that's available to you.
Newer agents are especially plagued with paralysis by analysis.
Often they are indecisive and unproductive because they feel they
don't have the experience to take action. But they can't gain experience
if they don't ever take action!
This is real estate sales, not brain surgery. If you make a mistake
nobody is going to die, including you! And if you are a veteran agent
stuck on a production plateau, you have to make a break with your
usual business methods in order to achieve better results. In short, you
must take action.
Although there never seems to be a "perfect" time to make a call
to a potential client, call anyway! You may feel the Item of Value you
are giving to your valued clients isn't quite right for everyone. But give
it anyway! You may never write notes to clients that they'll treasure
forever. But write them anyway!
When you take action, you will be well on your way to winning
the day. Or as the Nike slogan says, "Just do it!"
Habit 5: Learn to value each day
The psychology behind winning the day is based on understanding
the importance of each individual day. Often we falter in achieving
goals because we fail to appreciate that small steps add up to big
results. When people are in debt, they can be very casual about assum­
ing more debt because they feel they're already in so far over their
heads. Or in trying to lose weight, we easily rationalize that one more
slice of pizza isn't going make much difference to our waistline.
Similarly, when agents' businesses are floundering, it's easy to fall prey
to myriad distractions at the office like surfing the Web, checking email, or talking with the other agents.
We must understand the value each day represents to our business,
but winning the day doesn't mean we have to be perfect. During our
careers, Brian and I didn't robotically generate leads eight hours a day,


seven days a week. There were days that got away from us and days we
downright blew it.
In the end, if you want to make your business big, make your
focus small. As small and insignificant as one day may seem to your
business, it really is the difference between winning and losing. The
author Robert Collier once said, "If you think you are too small to
make a difference, you have never gone to bed with a mosquito."
Below is a winning formula that has helped many of our clients
focus on their goals, maintain discipline, apply a personal business
standard, and take action.

The Winning Formula
Daily
1. Write 3 personal notes
2. Make 5 check-in calls
3. Add 1 person to your database
4. Win 2 hours—you win the day!

Weekly
1. Host 2 business lunches
2. Average at least 10 Pop-Bys
3. Attend at least 1 networking meeting
4. Win 4 days—you win the week!

Monthly
1. Send an Item of Value to entire database
2. Make personal contact with all A+ clients
3. Attend a social or business networking event
4. Win 3 weeks—you win the month!

Winning the Day

Quarterly
1. Host a networking party, seminar, or gathering
2. Update your business directory

Yearly
1. Host a party for your A clients
2. Get support for your business (see Chapter 15)
3. Win 8 months — you win the year!

Win the Day
After we present at a seminar, participants always ask for more details
on how Brian was able to sell 85 homes in one year while working
only 35 hours a week, or how I was able to sell over 250 homes in 12
months. There is nothing mysterious about it. We built databases,
sorted and qualified them. We sent Items of Value to people in our
databases each month. We made follow-up phone calls. As a result, we
generated many high-quality leads.
• The one piece of advice we give to every newer agent looking to
gain traction: Win the day.
• The instruction we give to the middle producer who wants to
earn more commissions: Win the day.
• The suggestion we offer to the top-producing agent who wants
more balance in life: Win the day.
• This is the strategy Brian and I have lived during our real estate
careers. Do you want to Work by Referral and live the good life?
Then win the day!


A ction Steps

Revisit the above five habits for winning the day. Decide on three
of the five habits you will implement within the next seven days.
(Circle three)
Habit 1:

Focus on your GOALS

Habit 2:

Structure your work

Habit 3:

Create a Personal Business Standard

Habit 4:

Take action

Habit 5:

Learn to value of each day

Chapter Fourteen

Staying the Course:
Three Levels of
Accountability
By B rian Buffini

A man can learn only two ways, one by reading, and the
other by association with smarter people.
Will Rogers

I f a man empties his purse into his head, no one will
be able to take it away from them. An investment in
knowledge always pays the best dividends.
Benjamin Franklin
