Chapter 14

Staying the Course:
Three Levels of
Accountability

I

come from a country infused with water. Besides our streams,

rivers, lakes, and the ocean, rain falls on Ireland a good part of the
year. Visitors to Ireland often remark on the tranquility of a land

bathed in so much water.
Turn up the heat on that liquid, however, and you've created one of
the most powerful forces on earth. Steam-driven machinery transformed
agrarian societies into industrial ones at the beginning of the 19th cen­
tury, and today steam catapults F-14 aircraft into the air from ships.
Remember when you started your career and were all fired up to
start each day? As your work became routine, you may have lost some
of your steam and your productivity cooled to lukewarm instead of
red-hot. In this chapter, I'll discuss ways you can recharge your enthu­
siasm for your work with the assistance of accountability partners,
mentors, and coaches. A little help from others may be all it takes to
attain your peak performance.

Accountability Partners
Having an accountability partner is a great first step towards turning up
the heat and changing your daily habits and routines. When I ask audi­
ences at our live events how many feel they would achieve more if they
were held accountable to daily tasks, everyone raises their hands. But the
truth is, everybody wants accountability—until they get it.


We've all created excuses for ourselves when we fail to perform as
we'd like. And, after a while, we buy into those excuses and rational­
ize our behavior. As Joe always says, "Almost everyone wants to change
their circumstances, but very few want to change themselves."
Joe and I are very driven and focused people, but we both freely
admit that if we hadn't had each other as accountability partners, nei­
ther one of us would have achieved the level of success we did. Here's
the arrangement we had:
We each set daily goals; I would make 15 calls and write ten notes,
and Joe committed to making 25 calls and writing five notes. Then no
matter how many hours we worked or how many transactions we did,
we'd call each other and report our lead-generation activities for that
day. If one of us fell short of the goal, the other would ask, "What kept
you from 'winning the day'?"

Mentors
A mentor is a guide, a role model, or a trusted advisor. Unlike an
accountability partner, a mentor is not a
A mentor is typically

peer. Accountability partners often possess

someone who is further

strengths and weaknesses that complement
yours. But a mentor is typically someone

down the career

who is further down the career path from
you, has experienced the success you hope

path from you, has

to achieve, and has a willingness to share his
or her insights with you.

experienced the success

In business, a mentor might be your

you hope to achieve,

broker, manager, or someone who has built
a significant business outside of real estate.

and has a willingness

In spiritual matters, a mentor can be a pas­
tor, priest, or rabbi. In your family life, a

to share his or her

mentor can be a parent, uncle, aunt, or even

insights with you.

a grandparent. For financial issues, a mentor
can be a financial planner or investment
consultant you admire.

Staying the Course

Rather than requesting that a person become your mentor—which
is akin to asking for a prom date—invite him or her to lunch and ask:
• What have been your best decisions (pertaining to his or her
area of expertise)?
• What are the biggest lessons you've learned?
• Give a brief overview of your current situation and ask, What
advice would you have for someone in my position?
If I were to list all the people who've taken the time to impart wis­
dom to me at a lunch appointment, I'd need 20 pages of acknowledg­
ments at the front of this book. Many successful people have helped
me during my journey in America. Because having mentors over the
years has been so important to me, I took great personal satisfaction
in creating Buffini & Company's Certified Mentor Program to help
others as I have been helped. In just the last three years, 6,000 brokers,
owners, and managers in 15 countries have become Certified Mentors.
These role models facilitate our 100 Days to Greatness training pro­
gram, which has graduated over 40,000 agents (who average six trans­
actions during the program).

Coaches
A coach is a highly trained professional whose
job it is to instruct, direct, and encourage a
person to achieve at his or her highest level.

A coach is a highly trained

Unlike an accountability partner or mentor,
which is a volunteer role, a professional coach

professional whose job it

gets paid to motivate you. In the area of fit­

is to instruct, direct, and

ness, for example, an accountability partner
would be your workout buddy, your mentor

encourage a person to

might be the local gym rat who is in great

achieve at his or her

shape, and your coach is the personal trainer
you hire to help you reach your health and fit­
ness goals.

highest level.


Buffini & Company has coached over 45,000 agents and lenders,
the vast majority of whom come to us through referrals from our
clientele. The personal stories you have read in this book have been
those of our ClubNet Coaching clients.
We have a team of extraordinarily dedicated professional Business
Coaches who are highly skilled in challenging, persuading, and moti­
vating our clients to tap into their fullest potential. And the results
speak for themselves. According to the National Association of
Realtors, the median income for agents and brokers is $42,600 per
year. For agents alone, the median income is approximately $30,000
per year. In comparison, an agent currently being coached by Buffini
& Company averages $192,000 annually—six times more than the
national average.
And although our specialty is Business Coaching, we also hold our
clients accountable to the goals they've set in other areas of their lives.
For example, 97 percent of our ClubNet Coaching Members have a writ­
ten personal financial budget compared to 3 percent of the national real
estate population. What does a personal budget have to do with
Working by Referral? Everything! If your finances are in chaos, that
shows up in every transaction or interaction with a client. For example,
it is very hard to focus on what's best for your business and your clients
when you are desperate to make a sale to pay your past-due bills.
Our Business Coaches may also help clients attain their personal
goals of taking days off work or spending time with family. I've
received many notes over the years from the children of our clients
thanking us because dad came to all their games that season or that
"Mom no longer answers the cell phone during dinner."
Many agents we coach, when referring us to their friends, will talk
about how we've effected not only their business success, but also
changed their entire life.
Christin Jackson of Chandler, Arizona, credits ClubNet Coaching with
laying out a clear business strategy which allowed her more time with her
children. At 42, Christin was driving herself hard, raising four children

Staying the Course

between the ages of 4 and 10, working full time as a flight attendant for
America West airlines, and investing in real estate with her engineer hus­
band, Kerry. She longed to spend more time at home with her children, so
she decided to get her real estate license, thinking that her work schedule
would be more flexible. But Christin soon found out that the promise of
unlimited income on a completely flexible schedule was not reality in the
daily grind of unstructured real estate. Often, the time Christin planned to
spend with her kids evaporated as she worked long hours trying to drum up
business and worried into the night about failing.
After attending a Turning Point in 2003, Christin immediately signed
up for ClubNet Coaching. Her main goal at the time was not greater pro­
duction but to achieve better balance in her life. Coach Kim Ortega helped
channel Christin's energy into creating a Working by Referral system that
gave her more structure and direction. At the end of her first full year of
coaching, this rookie closed 52 transactions while working less than 35 hours
a week, and spending the quality time she yearned for with her children.
This significant boost in income created an opportunity for Christin's
husband to quit his engineering job and join her in the business. Christin
was able to further reduce her time spent in the real estate business to
spend even more time with her kids. Today their income is triple what it
was when they both had full-time jobs, and the quality of life their family
enjoys is priceless.
Our ultimate goal in ClubNet Coaching is to embody the both/and
approach, allowing Working by Referral to support the client's defini­
tion of living the good life. It's important to note that Buffini &
Company Business Coaching is not the only game in town. You need to
find a coach that meshes with you and understands your goals.
Whether you choose an accountability partner, mentor, or coach,
with a little help you can harness the power of your untapped poten­
tial, embrace your talents, and become truly successful.


A ction Steps

■

Find a fellow agent who will be your Accountability Partner.
Arrange to meet and discuss your lead-generation goals at a
designated time each week.

■

Check to see if your Broker or someone within your company
is a Buffini & Company Certified Mentor.

■

To learn how a Business Coach can accelerate your production
and bring balance to your business and your life visit
www.buffmiandcompany.com.


Chapter Fifteen

The Next Step
Is Yours

Think left and think right and think low and think high.
Oh, the thinks you can think up if only you try!
Dr. Seuss
The most effective way to do it, is to do it.
Amelia Earhart


Chapter 15

The Next Step
Is Yours

O

ur intention with this book was to provide you with an
introduction to the Working by Referral system as well as a
step-by step guide to putting it into practice. We also hope

we encouraged you to not only reevaluate your current business oper­
ations but to imagine your ideal career and life. Our desire is that you
will apply the Working by Referral system and, in doing so, will expe­
rience your version of the good life.
We have countless stories from our live events, digital training pro­
grams, and our Business Coaches of how Working by Referral has
helped people make lasting changes in their businesses and in their
lives. Are you next?

A Word from Joe
When I present, I always tell audiences about Otto the gorilla, the
biggest and most beloved attraction at the Brookfield Zoo in Illinois.
As the story goes, it was July 1 and the staff was preparing for the
Fourth of July holiday, which drew the largest crowd of the year.
Unfortunately, Otto was sick.
The panicked zookeeper came up with what he thought was a bril­
liant idea. He offered $100 to a young employee named Billy to wear
a gorilla costume and pretend to be Otto for the big day. Billy, who
had just been hired to clean out the elephant enclosure, thought play­
ing Otto would be a step up, so he agreed.
"Just don't do anything stupid," the zookeeper told Billy. "Otto
typically lies around all day, so don't get carried away."
