Early on July Fourth, Billy put on the gorilla costume, lumbered
over to Otto's favorite spot in his enclosure, and stretched out on his
back the way he'd seen Otto do every day. For the first few hours, the
crowd oohed and aahed over the sleeping primate.
But Billy soon became bored and sat up, looking at the crowd. A
great gasp of excitement went up from the audience. When he stood
up, the people cheered. Five minutes later, Billy started banging his
chest and moving around with more energy than Otto had shown in
some years. The excitement of the crowd was palpable. The cheering
and shouting brought even more zoo visitors to the gorilla enclosure.
Billy was loving his 15 minutes of fame, and the applause only
motivated him to do more. He climbed on the rocks, stomped his feet,
and waved his arms. The crowd reacted in unison with a crescendo of
cheering and screaming that inspired Billy to take his impersonation
to even greater heights. He grabbed a rope hanging from the roof of
the enclosure and swung back and forth.
The crowd was euphoric. Never had they seen such a show. Otto
was truly a star and the applause just kept growing louder and louder.
Billy's enthusiasm soared as he swung with all his might. Like a giant
pendulum, he swung high—and somersaulted right into the adjoining
lion enclosure.
As he tried to recover his composure, Billy got up on all fours and
found himself staring into a pair of blazing eyes and giant fangs. He
began to scream for his life: "Help! Help! Get me out here!" Suddenly
the lion hissed, "Shut up buddy, or we'll both lose our jobs!"
The point of this story is that there are times when we feel we're
imposters and that everyone else has his or her act together. But the
truth is, everyone has feelings of insecurity and self-doubt. In every
agent's and lender's career, there have been worries that they might
not have what it takes to make it in this business. Brian and I often felt
that we didn't measure up, and we leaned heavily on one another for
moral support. Fortunately, the belief we had in one another helped
shore up our confidence and restored faith in ourselves.
Successful people also fight through their fears and doubts by tak­
ing action. And with each action, momentum builds—eventually

The Next Step Is Yours

turning into genuine confidence. One of my greatest joys today is inter­
acting with people who I know have conquered their self-doubts. Their
courage in facing their challenges inspires me to do the same.
So when nagging doubts enter your mind, keep your eye on your
goals because on the other side, there's not just a better business, there's
a better you.

A Word from Brian
In 1995 I walked away from my daily work of selling real estate, which
had been a big part of my identity and success for a long time, and
launched a new venture called Buffini & Company. My goal was to help
people benefit from the things that had meant so much to me. My com­
pany's mission statement is, "To impact and improve the lives of peo­
ple," which also happens to be my personal mission statement.
One of the most rewarding aspects of my career today is receiving
notes and letters from our clients telling us that Working by Referral has
changed their lives. You don't have to be Joe Niego or Brian Buffini to
become successful with Working by Referral. We don't want you to be
us; we want you to be who you are. This system is a guide for running
your business while letting your individuality, personality, and talents
shine through.
Real estate is a demanding business. Joe and I have the deepest
respect for the courageous people who make the commitment to
become self-employed without guarantee of income, benefits, or safe­
ty net. Selling real estate is entrepreneurship at its finest—and it offers
the fairest form of compensation. You'll get out of this business exact­
ly what you put into it. It doesn't matter if you come from humble
beginnings like Joe or I did, whether you're an immigrant, or what
color your skin is.
Real estate's been very good to me. It has allowed a poor immigrant
to build a business that built a fortune that built a life. My hope and
prayer for you is that you'll pursue your business with vigor, steadfastly
apply the principles of Working by Referral, put on your white hat daily,
and enjoy the rewards of living the good life.

■
