Brian Buffini
Brian Buffini is chairman and founder
of Buffini & Company. Born and raised
in Ireland, he immigrated to the
United States in 1986 and entered the
real estate business in San Diego,
California. Rather than follow the
transactional lead-generation meth­
ods, Buffini developed a sophisticated
framework to grow his business 100
percent by referral. This system shaped
over the generations of the family busi­
ness in Ireland, helped him forge strong friendships with clients. This
ability to generate a predictable supply of high-quality referred leads
enabled Buffini to devote his time to providing clients with first class
service rather than in advertising or prospecting.
Buffini quickly became a top producing agent. After several years
of achievement and success, he started Buffini & Company to teach
these systems to others. Today, thousands of real estate agents, lenders
and service professionals across the nation are implementing Buffini
& Company Referral Systems and the outstanding training program,
100 Days to Greatness.
Buffini has provided expert training to more than a million peo­
ple through his nationwide Turning Point™ seminars. Clubnet™—the
nation's number one business coaching program—has real estate
agents and lenders member worldwide. As of this printing, these
members average six times the production of their NAR peers.
As Buffini says, "A good coach is able to help get more out of you
than you can get out of yourself. Everyone gets better with a good
coach." To arrange to have Brian speak at your company event contact
Buffini & Company at 800-945-3485.

Joe Niego, who grew up on Chicago's
South Side always had a love for hard
work and real estate. Alongside his
brothers, he was a star college basketball
player and was the second draft of the
NBA Houston Rockets. Sports Illustrated,
the New York Times and USA Today are
just a few of the publications that cov­
ered Niego's story. His career was also
the subject of a feature story with
Connie Chung on NBC national news.

1L_________ ______ jBH

]oe Niego

At the end of his playing career,
Niego put the same drive and determination into his real estate career
and excelled in national real estate companies as a top producer. In
1992, he met Brian Buffini, and the two quickly became best of
friends. Together, they developed systems to proactively generate
referred business. During this time, Niego wrote the famous Mayor
Campaign Dialog that is now used by tens of thousands of successful
real estate professionals across the nation.
In 1994, he started Niego Real Estate, which has since grown to
become a remarkably successful office. Using these referral methods,
he has sold more than 2,500 homes to date. "Our referral systems pro­
vide a step-by-step blueprint for achieving both success and a bal­
anced life," says Niego. "The thousands of success stories across the
nation demonstrate that very clearly."
Once again joining forces with Brian Buffini, Niego now teaches
powerful lead-generation systems to real estate and service profession­
als nationwide. To arrange to have Joe Niego speak at your company
event contact Buffini & Company at 800-945-3485.

Additional Resources
To learn more about products and services
for individuals and organizations based on
Working by Referral visit:
www.buffmiandcompany.com
800-945-3485

B K I AN
& J OE

BUFFINI
NI FGO

WORK

By Referral
Live the G ood Life!

I

P rovhn S trategies
for S ucckss and Happiness
in the R eal E state B usiness

For information about
additional copies and
discounted bulk sales visit:
http://www.workbyreferralbook.com


Nobody should sell real estate without reading W ork by
R efe rra l Live the G ood Life! This book is insightful, practical,

and best of all the strategies are PROVEN.
Zig Ziglar, author and motivational teacher

Brian Buffini has positively impacted the professional and personal lives of
thousands of RE/MAX agents around the world over the past 11 years. This
book is the road map to your success; buy it; read it; do it.
Dave Liniger, Chairman and Co-founder
RF/MAX International
This book is a must for anyone planning on being highly successful in the
real estate business and yet living a happy, well balanced life.
Wes Foster, Chairman/CEO, Fong & Foster Companies

ISBN

9 7 8 —0


1III llll III

$ 1 9 . 9 5
9820260- 0-7

—*

u n i llllll 5 1 9 9 5 >
P u b lish ed by B u ffin i & C om pany , I n c .
C arlsbad , CA, U.S.A.
